                                                      Paper Code
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                                                                         School of Computer Science & Statistics
                                         MSc in Computer Science                              Hilary Term 2025        Year 1
                                                        
                                                                 Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                                                                          CS7NS5/CSU44032
                                         dd MMM 2025                                          Location                                              Time (2 hours)
                                                                                          Dr. Stephen Farrell
                           Instructions to Candidates:
                           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks (40 each).
                           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so by the invigilator.
                           Materials Permitted for this examination:
                           N/A
                                                  Paper Code
       Question 1
       An Irish ISP is planning to deploy an upgraded customer support chatbot for their web site 
       using a new Large Language Model (LLM) with additional training using general company 
       data. The chatbot will also have access to live customer data. Chatbot training and testing 
       is to be carried out using a mixture of ISP staff and contractors. The underlying LLM 
       requires use of the LLM provider’s online service via the APIs defined for that service, but 
       company-specific and customer data are stored in databases that are operated by the ISP. 
       You are tasked to carry out a risk analysis to help inform the ISP of the risks they may face 
       during training, deployment and use of the new chatbot.
       You may assume any realistic setup for LLM training and runtime access. Bear in mind that 
       your answer should be about risk analysis, risks  and mitigations, and not (so much) about 
       LLMs, so you do not need to be highly specific or accurate as to LLM details. You can also 
       assume that the chatbot is only offered via the ISP’s web site and don’t need to consider 
       other channels such as instant messaging platforms etc.
       (a)   Describe the process you would use to carry out this task (note: this part of the 
       question asks about process, not the specific risks associated with the new system).
                                           [15 marks]
       (b) Describe three significant risks affecting the planned system, including their potential 
       impact and likelihood of occurrence, and outline countermeasures you would recommend 
       that the ISP ought apply.
                                           [15 marks]
       (c) What risks that potentially affect end users should be considered, and what actions 
       would you recommend be taken to mitigate those risks?
                                           [10 marks]
                         Page 2 of 5
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                  Paper Code
       Question 2
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, IPsec, or Kerberos) describe the 
       key management and application data protection aspects of the protocol in detail. 
       Describe how a library developer, for example the OpenSSL project for the TLS protocol, 
       might test their implementation.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen protocol, but for TLS, 
       you must explicitly state which version you are describing.
                                           [25 marks]
       (b) Outline the ways in which the security of your chosen protocol depends on other 
       infrastructure such as the Internet routing system, the domain name system or a key 
       management infrastructure, such as the Web-PKI for TLS as used in the web.
                                           [10 marks]
       (c) What security-relevant differences might arise for enterprises when comparing self-
       hosted versus cloud-hosted deployments of your chosen protocol?
                                            [5 marks]
                         Page 3 of 5
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                  Paper Code
       Question 3 
       The Irish national health authority (the Health Services Executive, HSE) have recently 
       (February 2025) introduced the “HSE Health App,” a mobile app for the IOS and Android 
       platforms that allows users to access public healthcare information, but to also (for 
       authenticated users) manage appointments with healthcare providers, store vaccination 
       and medicine/prescription information, and with additional functions to be added over 
       time. The app interacts with various back-end services operated by (or for) the HSE as well 
       as with services operated by other healthcare providers (e.g. hospital groups, general 
       practitioners). Generally, the system is a fairly typical mobile web application using APIs 
       provided by services, with some server-server interactions in the background, but this 
       system is dealing with highly sensitive healthcare information and is intended to 
       eventually be used at the scale of the entire population, so security and privacy has to be a 
       primary consideration and we can be sure the system will be attacked by various bad 
       actors.
       For the purposes of this question, assume we are back at the start of the design process 
       and you are tasked with producing a security and privacy design for the overall system. In 
       answering, pay attention to the marks allocated for each of parts (a)-(c) below.
       (a) Outline a design for the overall system (include diagrams as appropriate), and state the 
       security and privacy requirements the overall system should meet. Note that this part of 
       your answer should only discuss security and privacy requirements and not describe 
       specific mechanisms to meet those requirements.
                                           [20 marks]
       (b) Describe, in detail, the security and privacy mechanisms you would propose for the 
       system to meet requirements related to handling appointments from part (a). 
                                           [15 marks]
       (c) If you were a motivated and well-resourced bad actor, outline how would you go about 
       planning an attack on this system with the goal of exfiltrating user data if possible, or at 
       least denying service to users?
                                            [5 marks]
                         Page 4 of 5
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                  Paper Code
       Question 4 
       (a) Describe in detail how DNS query resolution for typical address records works, 
       including, at each stage, potential attacks and mitigations. How do DNSSEC related 
       resource records affect resolver performance if/when DNSSEC is used?
                                           [15 marks]
       (b) Describe ways in which the Web-PKI and the DNS are intertwined, and three attacks on 
       the DNS that affect the Web-PKI.
                                           [15 marks]
       (c) How do privacy issues arise in connection with the use of the DNS? How are those 
       affected by the use of DNS-over-TLS (DoT) or DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH)? What default DNS 
       privacy setup would you recommend for a current mobile operating system? Say why you 
       consider that a reasonable default, and how it would affect those privacy issues.
                                           [10 marks]
                         Page 5 of 5
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
