                                                      Paper Code
                                                                                                                                          
                                                             Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                                                                      School of Computer Science & Statistics
                                                      MSc in Computer Science                               Hilary Term 2022        Year 1
                                                                                                                    
                                                              Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                                                                       CS7NS5/CSU44032
                                         03 May 2022                                          RDS Main Hall                                         09.30 – 11.30
                                                                                       Dr. Stephen Farrell
                           Instructions to Candidates:
                           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks (40 each).
                           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so by the invigilator.
                           Materials Permitted for this examination:
                           N/A
                                             Paper Code
       Question 1
       Many people are in the process of returning to the ofÏce, or forms of hybrid working 
       from home and ofÏce. A software business has approximately 1000 employees across 
       three locations: Dublin, London and San Francisco. The company is concerned about 
       risks associated with the new situation, given that the switch in 2020 to working-from-
       home was done in emergency mode, and there may be new risks associated with 
       hybrid modes of working. They therefore contract with you to carry out a risk analysis 
       to help them manage the ongoing transition.
       (a)  Describe the process you would use to carry out this task (note: this part of the 
       question asks about process, not the specific risks associated with hybrid working).
                                          [15 marks]
       (b) Describe three significant risks specific to hybrid working that the company faces, 
       including   their   potential   impact   and   likelihood   of   occurrence,   and   outline 
       countermeasures you would recommend that the company ought apply.
                                          [20 marks]
       (c)   What specific kinds of security and privacy training would you recommend to 
       handle this hybrid situation for technical (e.g. programmers) and non-technical (e.g. 
       sales) employees and why?
                                          [5 marks]
                        Page 2 of 5
              © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 2
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, IPsec, or Kerberos) describe 
       the key management and application data protection aspects of the protocol in detail. 
       Describe how your chosen protocol supports cryptographic algorithm agility.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen protocol, but you 
       must explicitly state which version. 
                                          [25 marks]
       (b) What problems (e.g. caused by key sizes) would you expect to see if current 
       candidate post-quantum algorithms are to be integrated into your chosen protocol?
                                          [10 marks]
       (c) What criteria would you suggest should be required to be met before use of an 
       existing cryptographic algorithm should be (or encouraged to be) deprecated in your 
       chosen protocol?
                                          [5 marks]
                        Page 3 of 5
              © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 3 
       The Irish government have announced that they will subsidise retrofitÝng homes to 
       help meet Ireland’s climate change goals. That will involve so-called “one-stop shops” 
       where home-owners (with staff assistance) can arrange initial surveys, loans, grants 
       and contracting the many different kinds of service providers to e.g. improve 
       insulation, install solar panels, and carry out other works that improve the home’s 
       energy efÏciency. You are part of the team designing a web-based system to support 
       all these functions as well as typical administrative functions for the one-stop shops 
       (e.g. adding new employees, registering contractors, handling work rosters etc.). There 
       are planned to be approximately 30 one-stop shops around the country.
       (a) Outline a design for the overall system (include a network diagram), and state the 
       security and privacy requirements the overall system must meet. Note that this part of 
       your answer should only discuss security and privacy requirements and not describe 
       how to meet those requirements.
                                          [25 marks]
       (b) Describe, in detail, the security and privacy mechanisms you would propose for the 
       system to meet the requirements from part (a).
                                          [10 marks]
       (c) How might home-owners and contractors potentially collude to abuse the system? 
       How would you recommend mitigating such risks?
                                          [5 marks]
                        Page 4 of 5
              © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 4 
       (a) Describe the Internet e-mail architecture and ecosystem, with an emphasis on the 
       security and privacy issues that arise.
                                          [20 marks]
       (b) Describe three ways in which privacy related laws and regulations (e.g. GDPR) 
       affect the e-mail ecosystem.
                                          [10 marks]
       (c) Describe two significant barriers to the widespread use of end-to-end e-mail 
       security, and explain how those could be addressed over time.
                                          [10 marks]
                        Page 5 of 5
              © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
