                      Paper Code
                                                        
                  Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                       School of Computer Science & Statistics
           MSc in Computer Science  Hilary Term 2019             Year 1
                                              
                 EXAM SOLUTION 
                                NOTES 
                   Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                   CS7NS5/CS4407
           XX April 2019              LOCATION              09.30 – 11.30
                                 Dr. Stephen Farrell
           Instructions to Candidates:
           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks.
           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so 
           by the invigilator.
           Materials Permitted for this examination:
           N/A
           Exam questions are in bold Calibiri, like this.
           Solution notes are in Courier New, like this. 
                                           Paper Code
       Question 1.
       You are hired to do a risk analysis by a web development 
       company who write generic shopping-cart software for web 
       sites. Most of the company’s customers are in Ireland or the 
       UK. Given that the UK may be leaving the EU, the company’s 
       customers will require updates to the shopping-cart software, 
       e.g. to calculate changes to taxes or tariffs should those be 
       introduced when (or if!) the UK leaves the EU. At the time 
       when you are hired, the specific changes that will be needed 
       remain unknown, but it is considered highly likely that some 
       changes will be needed, and that the details of those changes 
       will only become known at the last minute. So your job is not 
       to evaluate the risk related to those functional changes, but 
       rather to help the company and their customers evaluate the 
       risks   associated   with   making   and   deploying   last-minute 
       changes to the shopping-cart code.
       (a)   Describe the risk analysis process you would follow in 
       order to assist the company. (Note – this part of the answer is 
       about process, not the details of technical mechanisms for 
       web-site security.)
                                        [10 marks]
       The student should describe a process of identifying risks, 
       classifying them in terms of impact and probability of 
       occurrence, e.g. with High/Medium/Low scores for each, and 
       assigning an overall (partial) order to the list. One then 
       iterates, designing a mitigation for the most imporant item 
       on the list, and then re-doing the analysis as necessary 
       (since one mitigation may affect the probability of other 
       risks or may introduce other risks). In practice, the 
       process terminates when the available effort is expended. 
       In theory some other form of termination might be 
       described. Any answer that captures most of this is fine.
       In addition to the usual process above, students might 
       include: building testbeds with mocked up new code (using 
       guesses at new rules) to test ahead of time; surveys of 
       existing deployments (esp to check what integration testing 
       is needed); contacting customers to ask them what risks 
       they see and agreeing roll-out (and roll-back) processes 
       with customers.
                       Page 2 of 11
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                                                                              Paper Code
               (b) Describe the most relevant risks (at least 3) you see for 
               handling such changes, including their potential impact and 
               likelihood of occurrence, and outline the countermeasures 
               you would recommend that the company, their customers 
               and/or related service providers ought implement or deploy 
               ahead of time to mitigate those risks. 
                                                                                       [25 marks]
               The student should take proper account of the context – the 
               existing web sites, the lack of time,  the existence of 
               ambiguity in rules as they affect particular products or 
               services, possibly having to use contractors and lack of 
               time to test. The main point is to describe a reasonable 
               set of threats and mitigations that approximates what might 
               really happen. 
               Risks should be described including estimates of impact and 
               probability of occurrence and they ought concentrate on the 
               more significant of those. Impact and probability can take 
               any value without losing marks, but for something odd (e.g. 
               if they considered lack of time to test low impact) more 
               justification is needed. If the impact/probability are 
               fairly obviously right, less needs to be said. Marking is 
               out of 5 points for each good one and with 3 more for 
               overall goodness. Possible risks would include:
                     code quality/QA
                     potential for coders (esp contractors) to add 
                      backdoors
                     lack of time to test deployments, leaving sites with 
                      new vulnerabilities
                     potential for web sites to try make chanegs  
                      themselves that conflict with the vendor’s s/w
                     integration failures between new and existing code
                     getting rules wrong for specific products/services and 
                      having to re-visit those
                     errors if new geo-location is required and doesn’t 
                      work well
                     payment processing changes
                                                   Page 3 of 11
                    © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                                                                              Paper Code
                     changes to product delivery charges/rules being 
                      implemented badly
                     changes to courier/tracking systems and costs causing 
                      breakage at integration time
                     changes to reporting/accounting systems causing 
                      breakage at integration time or later
               (c) If the changes end up being required to be deployed on 
               many web sites all at the same time (a “flag day”), what 
               specific risks not already mentioned would apply in that case 
               and how would you suggest mitigating them?
                                                                                        [5 marks]
               A flag day will likely put additional load in lots of 
               places, so talking about that will be fine. For example, 
               whatever s/w distribution scheme is used to get code to web 
               sites could fail; some sites might get updated early, some 
               late; some transactions could be in-play before the cutoff 
               time; DDoS actors are more likely to choose to strike on 
               the flag day; phishing attempts related to the flag day are 
               to be expected etc.
                                                   Page 4 of 11
                    © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                           Paper Code
       Question 2. 
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, 
       IPsec,   or   Kerberos)   describe   the   key   management   and 
       application data protection aspects of the protocol in detail. 
       How might the application programming interface (API) 
       offered by an implementation of your chosen protocol affect 
       application layer security?
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your 
       chosen protocol, but you need to explicitly state which 
       version you are describing. 
                                        [20 marks]
       Marks-from-15 for a good description of the scheme, with 
       e.g. the TLS handshake and application layer properly 
       described. 5 marks for describing effects of APIs, e.g 0RTT 
       early-data issues, private key mgmt/HSMs, even simple tings 
       like threading.
       (b) How might your chosen protocol be strengthened against 
       the possibility of attacks if a sufÏciently powerful quantum 
       computer were available to an adversary? What impact might 
       such changes have on performance and interoperability? If 
       someone using your chosen protocol was very concerned 
       about the possibility of such an attack being feasible in 2029, 
       what would you recommend they do today and in 5 years 
       time?
                                        [15 marks]
       They should refer to the NIST competition candidates, say 
       that some of those can be used to do key exchanges that are 
       mixed with (not replace) existing D-H key agreement; could 
       be >1 PQ key exchange mixed in. They should say roughly how 
       one might do such mixing, e.g. using TLS CH/SH extensions, 
       or maybe key_shares. For impact, they should say there’re 
       still unknowns but key sizes are v. likely to change. Run-
       time performance may not be too badly affected but could be 
       on some kinds of (smaller) device. If they propose use of 
       hash-based sigs, then they need to note the stateful 
       private keys. For today they should say to just monitor 
       developments   unless   you   have   specific   needs   to   keep 
       application data secret for e.g. 20 years. For 5 years time 
       more likely want to have some mixing of NIST candidates or 
                       Page 5 of 11
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                           Paper Code
       winners usable and tested by then, so deployment can be 
       done as needed.
       (c) Describe three security-relevant differences that arise 
       when your chosen protocol   is   used   in   server-to-server 
       deployments   versus   when   deployed   a   client-server 
       environment. (If you have chosen IPsec then describe three 
       differences   between   transport   mode   and   tunnel   mode 
       deployments.)
                                        [5 marks]
       Various possible points:
       - different root stores vs. Web deployments
       - can build own PKI easily and use mutual-auth, but still 
       need some kind of mapping from x.509 subject names to 
       application meaningful names
       - no user to see warnings so need hard-fail and logging
       - key storage needs to work across reboots on both sides
       - key rotation needed (in case of breach)
       - etc.
                       Page 6 of 11
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                                                             Paper Code
            Question 3. 
            A   university   computer   science   department   teach   an 
            introductory   ‘C’   programming   module.   To   date,   the 
            examination for that module has been a hand-written exam 
            (like this one:-). The university want to allow students to take 
            the programming exam in a computer lab with standard 
            desktop computers provided. Students will be given a number 
            of programming tasks and must complete those during the 90 
            minutes of the exam. All students take the same exam at the 
            same time in the same room. Students are not allowed to 
            make use of the Internet whilst doing the exam. You are 
            tasked with making an existing computer lab suitable for use 
            for such an exam.
            (a) Outline your overall design for such a system (include a 
            network diagram), and state the security requirements the 
            system must meet. Note that this part of your answer should 
            only discuss security requirements and not describe how to 
            meet those requirements.
                                                                      [15 marks]
            They should probably outline how the lab is setup before 
            and after, but definitely after. The “after” state can’t 
            really use any different h/w. Lab-for-exam setup should 
            basically f/w off all machines from one another and from 
            outside, but will still need some services running, esp 
            student authentication.
            Requirements likely include:
            - special invigilator training (with sysadmin backup)
            - ability to swtich-to-exam-mode and back without too much 
            trouble
            - strict workstation integrity – build needs to have 
            everthing needed for exam but nothing else, e.g. no trojan 
            code surviving switch-to-exam
                rd
            - 3  party audit of setup before and after exam
            - authentication of students
            - backup: saving state/work on the fly automatically
            - student sign-off of final exam state
                                         Page 7 of 11
                 © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                                                             Paper Code
            - archiving of exam-script equivalents for marking
            - access controls for exam-script equivalents (course 
            director, marker, admins etc with varying roles)
            - alerting/audit of everything done during the exam time, 
            esp student attempts to mess with systems:-)
            - v. high reliability, against systems and power failure
                           nd
            - having a 2  exam ready to go in the event of failures, 
            either in the same or a different room, at the same or a 
            later time
            (b) Describe, in detail, the security solutions you would 
            propose to meet those requirements, specifically including 
            how you would   prevent or otherwise mitigate potential 
            abuses of the system. 
                                                                      [20 marks]
            They should propose a way to meet each of the requirements 
            stated. The more secure, sensible, practical and easy, the 
            better. I’d expect this to mostly be built around some kind 
            of   VMs   and   re-flashing   the   boxes   with   some   student 
            authentication scheme and a later DB of scrip-equivalents 
            accessible via the university intranet/web. There’s scope 
            for cleverness in handling student sign-off of final state, 
            e.g. could be stuff gets sent to a specific printer that the 
            inviligator can access and have the student physically sign 
            the output might be easiest, anything fancier may be too 
            hard.
            (c) A student wants to cheat and is willing to pay you to help 
            do that. Given that you will not have seen the exam questions 
            ahead of time, how would you assist that student in cheating 
            without either of you being caught? 
                                                                        [5 marks]
            The sneakier the better. Likely some backdoor triggered via 
            a phone-in-pocket or smart-watch that allows student to get 
            externally supplied solutions developed outside the exam 
            environment e.g. 30 mins into exam. Delivery of solutions 
            via covert channel, e.g if “gcc -o a.out prog.c” produces 
            the goods for a few minutes around a known time if prog.c 
            has the right innocuous-looking content. Delivery of that 
                                         Page 8 of 11
                 © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                           Paper Code
       borked gcc into lab space via a late s/w update, but 
       getting caught there isn’t hard.
                       Page 9 of 11
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                                        Paper Code
         Question 4. 
         (a) Describe the life-cycle of a typical second-level DNS name 
         in a typical top level domain (e.g. .com or .ie), from initial 
         registration   to   eventual   retirement,   including   the   steps 
         required of all of the entities involved. Include a description 
         of the security considerations relevant at each stage in the 
         process. What additional steps are required to secure the 
         zone for that name using DNSSEC?
                                                    [15 marks]
         Marks-from-8 for a good description of the life-cycle with 
         all   players   and   basic   DNSSEC   included   and   potential 
         security issues (e.g. hack registrar) mentioned. The other 
         7 for describing how changes are handled well, e.g. 
         switching regisgtrar, DNSSEC re-signing, KSK roll-over, 
         possibly automated via CDS/CDNSKEY.
         (b) What are the current and likely future privacy issues 
         related to the overall DNS system? Describe mechanisms that 
         have been proposed to improve privacy and the positive and 
         negative consequences of those mechanisms.
                                                    [15 marks]
         5 marks for stuff about DNS privacy problem statement, 5 
         more for QNAME minimisation, DoT, DoH descriptions and 5 
         for calling out the good (better privacy, anti-censorship 
         etc.) and bad effects: e.g. passive   DNS disruption, 
         enterprise DNS bypass via DoH, centralisation towards CF, 
         quad-9 and google etc.
         (c) An enterprise has been using split-horizon DNS for many 
         years and use many names that are only resolvable internally. 
         How would you suggest that enterprise handle split-horizon 
         DNS in the event that browsers commonly use the DNS-over-
         HTTPS (DoH) protocol? In your opinion, what should browser-
         makers who support DoH do (or not do) to avoid having a 
         negative impact on such enterprise networks? Justify your 
         opinion.
                                                    [10 marks]
         The students will need to figure this out themselves as 
         we’ll only briefly have mentioned it in class (and today, 
         nobody knows for sure what’ll actually happen). Likely 
                              Page 10 of 11
            © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                           Paper Code
       options include browser bulds with corp. setup that don’t 
       do DoH or only to in-house servers, doing nothing and 
       saying that enterprises should get rid of split-horizon and 
       just put it all out there, browser detecting some local 
       config enterprise can set e.g. in their own recursives or 
       in-house authoratitives that control how DoH is done 
       (possibly with some form of authentication required). Most 
       of   those   could   be   defended,   7   marks   for   describing 
       something sensible that could work, 3 for how well they 
       justify it as reasonable.
                       Page 11 of 11
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
