                      Paper Code
                                                        
                  Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                       School of Computer Science & Statistics
           MSc in Computer Science  Hilary Term 2020             Year 1
                                              
                   Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                  CS7NS5/CSU44032
           XX April 2020              LOCATION              09.30 – 11.30
                                 Dr. Stephen Farrell
           Instructions to Candidates:
           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks.
           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so 
           by the invigilator.
           Materials Permitted for this examination:
           N/A
                                           Paper Code
       Question 1.
       As part of a due-diligence exercise, you are hired to do a risk analysis 
       by a primarily online travel agency who are acquiring a competitor in 
       a market dramatically, but hopefully temporarily, shrinking due to the 
       COVID19  pandemic. The targets for your analysis are the online 
       booking systems currently deployed by the company being acquired. 
       New risks that may be created due to the merger are in scope, as well 
       as an evaluation of the risks associated with the to-be-deployed 
       company’s existing systems. The finances and other general business 
       issues related to the acquisition are handled by others and need not 
       be part of your risk analysis.
       (a)  Describe the risk analysis process you would follow in order to 
       assist the acquiring company. (Note – this part of the answer is about 
       process,   not   the   details   of   technical   mechanisms   for   web-site 
       security.)
                                        [10 marks]
       (b)  Describe the most relevant risks (at least 3) you see in this 
       scenario, including their potential impact and likelihood of occurrence, 
       and outline the countermeasures you would recommend that the 
       acquiring company ought implement or deploy to mitigate those risks. 
                                        [25 marks]
       (c) It is often the case that the jobs or roles of systems administrators 
       in the to-be-acquired company undergo significant change, up to and 
       frequently including  job losses. How would you recommend the 
       acquiring company deal with the risk of misbehaviour by such staff in 
       the to-be-acquired company?  
                                         [5 marks]
                        Page 2 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                           Paper Code
       Question 2. 
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, IPsec, or 
       Kerberos)   describe   the   key   management   and   application   data 
       protection aspects of the protocol in detail. Describe how your chosen 
       protocol handles cryptographic agility and how that might affect the 
       evolution of implementations and deployments over time.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen 
       protocol, but you need to explicitly state which version you are 
       describing. 
                                        [20 marks]
       (b)   Describe   how   some   application   uses   your   chosen   protocol 
       highlighting long-term key management and provisioning issues. (For 
       example you might describe how the web uses TLS, or how SMTP 
       uses STARTTLS.) Include details of any changes to that application 
       that were required to integrate with your chosen key exchange 
       protocol. What security services does your chosen key exchange 
       protocol enable for that application?
                                        [15 marks]
       (c) For your chosen protocol, what guidance would you offer today to 
       an   implementer   concerned   about   attacks   based   on   quantum 
       computing?
                                         [5 marks]
                        Page 3 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                           Paper Code
       Question 3. 
       You are tasked to develop a desktop or smartphone application for 
       measuring the availability of web sites and specific URLs. The 
       application will use a curated list of domain names and URLs and 
       establish whether a web site at that domain is operating and whether 
       or not the configured URLs are accessible. The application should be 
       able to refresh the curated list and also allow users to manage their 
       local copy of the list (e.g. allowing additions and deletions). The main 
       purpose of the application is to measure availability over time but the 
       application may also be used to detect censorship. If the user allows, 
       the application will upload results to a web server at which (a version 
       of) those will be made publicly available. The application is primarily 
       intended for use in relatively safe environments, e.g., within a 
       campus network or a country with a “liberal” regime and little 
       censorship.
       (a) Outline your overall design for such a system (include a network 
       diagram), and state the security and privacy requirements the 
       application and overall system must meet. Note that this part of your 
       answer should only discuss requirements and not describe how to 
       meet those requirements.
                                        [15 marks]
       (b) Describe, in detail, the security and privacy solutions you would 
       propose to meet those requirements. 
                                        [20 marks]
       (c) While your application is mainly intended for use in relatively safe 
       environments, it could also be used by people in more challenging 
       situations,   e.g.,   where   even   checking   for   censored   content   is 
       significantly risky. What additional measures would you consider to 
       try make your application safer for such users?
                                         [5 marks]
                        Page 4 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                           Paper Code
       Question 4. 
       (a) Describe the overall architecture of WebRTC and how a voice call 
       between two browsers works. Your description should include the 
       networking, security and privacy features that are built-in to WebRTC.
                                        [20 marks]
       (b) What privacy issues would arise if WebRTC were to replace all or 
       almost all voice communications? For those you consider significant 
       concerns, how would you suggest they be controlled or otherwise 
       mitigated? For those where you are sanguine as to the risks, justify 
       your position.
                                        [15 marks]
       (c) If you were a criminal, what kinds of fraud would you attempt 
       using your own WebRTC services? How might you attempt to avoid 
       being caught?
                                         [5 marks]
                        Page 5 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
