                                                      Paper Code
                                                                                                                                          
                                                             Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                                                                      School of Computer Science & Statistics
                                                      MSc in Computer Science                               Hilary Term 2022        Year 1
                                                                                                                    
                                                              Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                                                                       CS7NS5/CSU44032
                                     EXAM SOLUTION NOTES
                                         XX May 2020                                          LOCATION                                              09.30 – 11.30
                                                                                       Dr. Stephen Farrell
                           Instructions to Candidates:
                           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks (40 each).
                           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so by the invigilator.
                           Materials Permitted for this examination:
                           N/A
                           Exam questions are in bold Calibiri, like this.
                           Solution notes are in Courier New, like this. 
                                             Paper Code
       Question 1
       Many people are in the process of returning to the ofÏce, or forms of hybrid working 
       from home and ofÏce. A software business has approximately 1000 employees 
       across   three   locations:   Dublin,   London   and   San   Francisco.   The   company   are 
       concerned about risks associated with the new situation, given that the switch in 
       2020 to working-from-home was done in emergency mode, and there may be new 
       risks associated with hybrid modes of working. They therefore contract with you to 
       carry out a risk analysis to help them manage the ongoing transition.
       (a)  Describe the process you would use to carry out this task (note: this part of the 
       question asks about process, not the specific risks associated with hybrid working).
                                          [15 marks]
       The student should describe a process of identifying assets 
       and risks,  classifying them in terms of impact and 
       probability of occurrence, e.g. with High/Medium/Low scores 
       for each, and assigning an overall (partial) order to the 
       list. Normally, one then iterates, designing a mitigation 
       for the most imporant item on the list, and then re-doing 
       the analysis as necessary (since one mitigation may affect 
       the probability of other risks or may introduce other 
       risks). In practice, the process terminates when the 
       available effort is expended. In this case, interviewing 
       employees to establish the range of existing home setups 
       would seem good to include. Similarly, it would make sense 
       to try establish the extent to which better-planned 
       security setups have been deployed in the two years since 
       the initial emergency move to home-working. Any answer that 
       captures most of this is fine, as are descriptions of 
       equally good alternative processes.
       Up to 10 marks for describing a reasonable process, 5 more 
       for overall goodness.
       (b) Describe three significant risks specific to hybrid working that the company face, 
       including   their   potential   impact   and   likelihood   of   occurrence,   and   outline 
       countermeasures you would recommend that the company ought apply.
                                          [20 marks]
       Up to 5 marks per risk, with 5 for overall goodness.
       The risks described should be specific to hybrid working. 
       It’s ok if those risks are organisational or technical.
                        Page 2 of 8
              © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       - hybrid working may badly affect co-operation as having 
       some people on-site and others at home could lead to 
       inequalitry and unhappiness
       - individual team security and privacy policies will need 
       to specifically consider hybrid working whereas previously 
       there was a more level playing field (all @ home or all in 
       the office)
       - in-office devices are likely to have missed updates over 
       the last two years (and take considerable time to update, 
       if in-house IT don’t look after ‘em, which is likely)
       - hybrid working may icrease the probability of work 
       activities being done in the home that ought be done in the 
       office (e.g. some calls, documents/code taken outside corp 
       n/w) – while that was inevitable during wfh times, in 
       hybrid mode it’s likely some activities should only take 
       place back on the corp n/w again
       - DPOs/regulators may have been willing to overlook issues 
       with wfm in emergency mode, but may be stricter with hybrid 
       setups – this could lead to difficulty e.g. if customer PII 
       was regularly processed @ home during wfh.
       - hybrid working is likely to increase the probability that 
       internal split-horizon names leak
       - More examples at: 
       https://cltc.berkeley.edu/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/Securi
       ty_Privacy_and_Hybrid_Work.pdf 
       (c)  What specific kinds of security and privacy training to handle this hybrid situation 
       would you recommend for technical (e.g. programmers) and non-technical (e.g. 
       sales) employees and why?
                                          [5 marks]
       Mention of sensible training that could work for either is 
       ok, but better if specific, as asked. For techhies, perhaps 
       training in HOWTO do code review when some people are 
       remote, for sales, HOWTO ensure leads and similar data sets 
       are not vulnerable to accidental loss/leak. Straight marks 
       from 5.
                        Page 3 of 8
              © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 2
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, IPsec, or Kerberos) describe 
       the key management and application data protection aspects of the protocol in 
       detail. Describe how your chosen protocol supports cryptographic algorithm agility.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen protocol, but you 
       must explicitly state which version. 
                                          [25 marks]
       Marks-from-15 for a good description of the scheme, with 
       e.g. the TLS handshake and application layer properly 
       described. 5 marks for describing basic crypto agility 
       (ciphersuites etc.) and 5 for additional goodness (e.g. 
       covering extensions/tickets etc).
       (b) What problems (e.g. caused by key sizes) would you expect to see should current 
       candidate post-quantum algorithms be integrated into your chosen protocol?
                                          [10 marks]
       5 marks for describing properties of PQ algs (key/KEM/sig 
       sizes, runtimes, relative immaturity). 5 marks for covering 
       hybrid proposals and possible effects on PKI.
       (c) What criteria would you suggest ought be required to be met before use of an 
       existing cryptographic algorithm should be (encouraged to be) deprecated in your 
       chosen protocol?
                                          [5 marks]
       Straight marks-from-5: alg looking weak, near-ubiquitous 
       availability of a better alg, lack of significant (1%+) set 
       of deployments that are fixed on the to-be-deprecated alg.
                        Page 4 of 8
              © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 3 
       The Irish government have announced that they will subsidise retrofitÝng homes to 
       help meet Ireland’s climate change goals. That will involve so-called “one-stop 
       shops” where home-owners (with staff assistance) can arrange initial surveys, loans, 
       grants and contracting the many different kinds of service providers to e.g. improve 
       insulation, install solar panels, and carry out other works that improve the home’s 
       energy efÏciency. You are part of the team designing a web-based system to support 
       all these functions as well as typical administrative functions for the one-stop shops 
       (e.g. adding new employees, registering contractors, handling work rosters etc.). 
       There are planned to be approximately 30 one-stop shops around the country.
       (a) Outline a design for the overall system (include a network diagram), and state the 
       security and privacy requirements the overall system must meet. Note that this part 
       of your answer should only discuss security and privacy requirements and not 
       describe how to meet those requirements.
                                          [25 marks]
       10 marks for overall design, n/w diagram; 10 marks for 
       more obvious requirements identified 5 more for overall 
       goodness. Basically an obvious email/IM/web-based system 
       but with ability to locally add contractors and do all the 
       stuff required for grant management. Requirements are the 
       usual ones too (confid, auth, authz, audit, backup). 
       Including incident-handling plans is good. Messaging needs 
       mail and IM solutions, also on mobile, likely via apps. 
       Probable roles would include, devops, sysadmin, homeowner, 
       store-staff, store-manager, service-provider, auditor etc 
       and authorization requirements can be stated accordingly.
       As   usual   some   students   will   mix   up   requirements   & 
       implementation/mechanisms (i.e. parts (a) & (b)) but I’ll 
       be lenient on that.
       (b) Describe, in detail, the security and privacy mechanisms you would propose for 
       the system to meet the requirements from part (a).
                                          [10 marks]
       Marks from 6 for hitting the obvious points, with 4 more 
       for inclusion of less obvious things like:
       - New system => no legacy => only support “best” security 
       setup (unless some e.g. browser needs less, but not that 
       likely)
       - 2FA mandatory for some roles (admins & auditors) and 
                        Page 5 of 8
              © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                                         Paper Code
              optional for others
              - Ransomware insurance/incident-handling planning
                                                           rd
              - Bug bounties via some credible 3  party service (e.g. 
              hackerone)
                                                                           rd
              - Code-reviews esp for mobile apps and their 3  party libs
              - Intrusion detection systems and linkage to national CERT 
              (NCSC in Ireland’s case)
              (c)  How might home-owners and contractors potentially collude to abuse the 
              system? How would you recommend mitigating such risks?
                                                                                    [5 marks]
              Straight marks from 5, with more marks for sneakier 
              collusion and/or cleverer mitigations. Probably the best 
              schemes will involve pretending to own someone else’s home 
              (or rental). One could imagine a whole-of-area setup where 
              lots of service providers and homeowners are colluding also 
              with store operator. Audit is the main mitigation in most 
              cases, likely needing to include manual spot-checks.
                                                Page 6 of 8
                            © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                Paper Code
          Question 4 
          (a) Describe the Internet e-mail architecture and ecosystem, with an emphasis on the 
          security and privacy issues that arise.
                                                           [20 marks]
          10 marks for a good job on the more architectural aspects, 
          another 10 for more pragmatic things (antispam etc). 
          RFC5598 describes a bunch of the architectural  entities 
          (MUA, MSA etc.) and protocols (SMTP, IMAP, etc.) involved. 
          Each protocol has options for using TLS sensibly that 
          should be described. Spam and malware etc. can be described 
          either in terms of the problems or common mitigations. More 
          marks if less obvious issues well-covered (e.g. spear-
          phising, centralisation of MSPs etc).
          (b) Describe three ways in which privacy related laws and regulations (e.g. GDPR) 
          affect the e-mail ecosystem.
                                                           [10 marks]
          3 marks each plus one for luck. 
          - email list managers and bulk mailers need to ensure 
          permission/consent has been granted or will be in violation 
          of GDPR
          - MS operators likely need to move to adopt 2FA as 
          otherwise they’d be accused of not adopting best practices 
          if the MS content leaks
          -   conformant   mailing   lists   need   to   provide   a   real 
          unsubscribe optional
          - embedding pixels to track opening has probably always 
          breached GDPR, that fact is becoming accepted recently
          - MSPs might adopt a “sovereign” approach where they try 
          keep all instances in one jurisdiction 
          (c) Describe two significant barriers to the widespread use of end-to-end e-mail 
          security, and say how those could be addressed over time.
                                                           [10 marks]
          That’s all on slide 57 of [1]. Straight 5 marks for each.
          [1] https://down.dsg.cs.tcd.ie/cs7053/lectures/06-protocols.pdf
                                   Page 7 of 8
                    © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
                        Page 8 of 8
              © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
