                      Paper Code
                                                        
                  Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                       School of Computer Science & Statistics
           MSc in Computer Science  Hilary Term 2019             Year 1
                                              
                   Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                   CS7NS5/CS4407
           XX April 2019              LOCATION              09.30 – 11.30
                                 Dr. Stephen Farrell
           Instructions to Candidates:
           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks.
           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so 
           by the invigilator.
           Materials Permitted for this examination:
           N/A
                                           Paper Code
       Question 1.
       You are hired to do a risk analysis by a web development company 
       who write generic shopping-cart software for web sites. Most of the 
       company’s customers are in Ireland or the UK. Given that the UK may 
       be leaving the EU, the company’s customers will require updates to 
       the shopping-cart software, e.g. to calculate changes to taxes or 
       tariffs should those be introduced when (or if!) the UK leaves the EU. 
       At the time when you are hired, the specific changes that will be 
       needed remain unknown, but it is considered highly likely that some 
       changes will be needed, and that the details of those changes will 
       only become known at the last minute. So your job is not to evaluate 
       the risk related to those functional changes, but rather to help the 
       company and their customers evaluate the risks associated with 
       making and deploying last-minute changes to the shopping-cart code.
       (a)  Describe the risk analysis process you would follow in order to 
       assist the company. (Note – this part of the answer is about process, 
       not the details of technical mechanisms for web-site security.)
                                        [10 marks]
       (b) Describe the most relevant risks (at least 3) you see for handling 
       such changes, including their potential impact and likelihood of 
       occurrence, and outline the countermeasures you would recommend 
       that the company, their customers and/or related service providers 
       ought implement or deploy ahead of time to mitigate those risks. 
                                        [25 marks]
       (c) If the changes end up being required to be deployed on many web 
       sites all at the same time (a “flag day”), what specific risks not 
       already mentioned would apply in that case and how would you 
       suggest mitigating them?
                                         [5 marks]
                        Page 2 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                           Paper Code
       Question 2. 
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, IPsec, or 
       Kerberos)   describe   the   key   management   and   application   data 
       protection aspects of the protocol in detail. How might the application 
       programming interface (API) offered by an implementation of your 
       chosen protocol affect application layer security?
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen 
       protocol, but you need to explicitly state which version you are 
       describing. 
                                        [20 marks]
       (b) How might your chosen protocol be strengthened against the 
       possibility of attacks if a sufÏciently powerful quantum computer were 
       available to an adversary? What impact might such changes have on 
       performance and interoperability? If someone using your chosen 
       protocol was very concerned about the possibility of such an attack 
       being feasible in 2029, what would you recommend they do today 
       and in 5 years time?
                                        [15 marks]
       (c) Describe three security-relevant differences that arise when your 
       chosen protocol is used in server-to-server deployments versus when 
       deployed a client-server environment. (If you have chosen IPsec then 
       describe three differences between transport mode and tunnel mode 
       deployments.)
                                         [5 marks]
                        Page 3 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                           Paper Code
       Question 3. 
       A university computer science department teach an introductory ‘C’ 
       programming module. To date, the examination for that module has 
       been a hand-written exam (like this one:-). The university want to 
       allow students to take the programming exam in a computer lab with 
       standard desktop computers provided. Students will be given a 
       number of programming tasks and must complete those during the 
       90 minutes of the exam. All students take the same exam at the 
       same time in the same room. Students are not allowed to make use 
       of the Internet whilst doing the exam. You are tasked with making an 
       existing computer lab suitable for use for such an exam.
       (a) Outline your overall design for such a system (include a network 
       diagram), and state the security requirements the system must meet. 
       Note that this part of your answer should only discuss security 
       requirements and not describe how to meet those requirements.
                                        [15 marks]
       (b) Describe, in detail, the security solutions you would propose to 
       meet those requirements, specifically including  how  you would 
       prevent or otherwise mitigate potential abuses of the system. 
                                        [20 marks]
       (c) A student wants to cheat and is willing to pay you to help do that. 
       Given that you will not have seen the exam questions ahead of time, 
       how would you assist that student in cheating without either of you 
       being caught? 
                                         [5 marks]
                        Page 4 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
                                           Paper Code
       Question 4. 
       (a) Describe the life-cycle of a typical second-level DNS name in a 
       typical top level domain (e.g. .com or .ie), from initial registration to 
       eventual retirement, including the steps required of all of the entities 
       involved. Include a description of the security considerations relevant 
       at each stage in the process. What additional steps are required to 
       secure the zone for that name using DNSSEC?
                                        [15 marks]
       (b) What are the current and likely future privacy issues related to the 
       overall DNS system? Describe mechanisms that have been proposed 
       to improve privacy and the positive and negative consequences of 
       those mechanisms.
                                        [15 marks]
       (c) An enterprise has been using split-horizon DNS for many years and 
       use many names that are only resolvable internally. How would you 
       suggest that enterprise handle split-horizon DNS in the event that 
       browsers commonly use the DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH) protocol? In your 
       opinion, what should browser-makers who support DoH do (or not do) 
       to avoid having a negative impact on such enterprise networks? 
       Justify your opinion.
                                        [10 marks]
                        Page 5 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2019
