                                                      Paper Code
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                                                                        School of Computer Science & Statistics
                                                      MSc in Computer Science                              Hilary Term 2023        Year 1
                                                                                                      
                                                                 Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                                                                          CS7NS5/CSU44032
                                        dd MMM 2023                                           Location                                             Time (2 hours)
                                                                                         Dr. Stephen Farrell
                           Instructions to Candidates:
                           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks (40 each).
                           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so by the invigilator.
                           Materials Permitted for this examination:
                           N/A
                                                 Paper Code
        Question 1
        Cost of living increases have been newsworthy in recent years. In Ireland the Central 
        Statistics OfÏce (CSO) calculate the Consumer Price Index (CPI) by monitoring price 
        changes for a selected basket of goods. “Each month, approximately 80 price collectors 
        collect approximately 50,000 price quotations directly from shops, department stores, 
        supermarkets, petrol stations, etc. in 84 cities and towns throughout Ireland. Another 
        3,000 prices are collected centrally by the CSO on a monthly basis using postal, e-mail and 
        telephone enquiries along with Internet price collection.”(*) Currently, price collectors 
        submit paper reports to the CSO that are then processed centrally. The CSO are 
        considering replacing this manual system with a system based around using a mobile 
        phone app running on the collector’s own device. The app’s basic function is to allow 
        entry of store and product pricing information and uploading of that to a CSO server for 
        subsequent processing. The CSO however, are concerned about potential risks that might 
        invalidate their CPI statistics and/or damage their reputation, so before going ahead with 
        developing the app, they hire you as a consultant to carry out a risk analysis of the 
        planned new system.
        (a)   Describe the process you would use to carry out this task (note: this part of the 
        question asks about process, not the specific risks associated with the new system).
                                               [15 marks]
        (b) Describe three significant risks affecting the planned system, including their potential 
        impact and likelihood of occurrence, and outline countermeasures you would recommend 
        that the CSO ought apply.
                                               [15 marks]
        (c) What risks that potentially affect collectors should the CSO consider, and what actions 
        would you recommend they take to mitigate those risks?
                                               [10 marks]
        (*) The quote is from [1] (for anyone who’d like to check after the exam:-), but the mechanics of current and 
        planned collection systems are invented for the purposes of the question.
        [1] https://www.cso.ie/en/media/csoie/methods/consumerpriceindex/introductiontocpi16.pdf
                            Page 2 of 5
                © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 2
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, IPsec, or Kerberos) describe the 
       key management and application data protection aspects of the protocol in detail. 
       Describe how an implementation of your chosen protocol could be vulnerable to timing 
       attacks.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen protocol, but you must 
       explicitly state which version. 
                                           [25 marks]
       (b) Describe an application that can use your chosen protocol and that would be at risk in 
       the face of a cryptographically relevant quantum computer? What application-layer 
       mitigations and/or changes to your chosen protocol would you suggest to handle those 
       risks in the short term (this year), and in the medium term, e.g., in five years’ time?
                                           [10 marks]
       (c) What kinds of automated pre-release (or continuous integration) testing would you 
       suggest be put in place for developers of implementations of your chosen protocol?
                                            [5 marks]
                         Page 3 of 5
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 3 
       A well-funded global human rights organisation plan to develop a new web-based system 
       to allow small human rights defender groups to apply for funding for projects aiming to 
       monitor possible rights violations. A typical project would involve less than US$50k in 
       funding, would run for 3 to 6 months and might involve collating evidence of rights 
       violations by state or commercial actors that can be confirmed later by others, e.g. 
       mainstream   media.   (The   ability   to   confirm   evidence   collected   is   an   important 
       requirement.) Other projects might involve training people to better use technology for 
       evidence collection, in ways that don’t put the collector at undue risk. 
       Application processing has to be fast, with a goal of providing funds for successful 
       applications in a few weeks, in order to be able to react to events as they arise. As with 
       any funding scheme, applications need to be reviewed by external technical, legal and 
       ethics experts, and funding should be targeted towards applicants with good reputation. 
       However, unlike many funding schemes, the application content and the identities of 
       those working on funded projects can be highly sensitive - in some cases exposing 
       application details could put lives at risk, so fine-grained confidentiality is required for the 
       proposed system. 
       The funder will operate the web site that allows applicants to submit and track the 
       progress of their applications, and that provides (some) access to outside experts who will 
       evaluate relevant part(s) of the applications. Lastly, the funder also has to be accountable 
       for the funds distributed, so needs to be able to provide information about the efÏcacy of 
       funded projects, but again without creating risk for those executing funded projects.
       (a) Outline a design for the overall system (include diagrams as appropriate), and state the 
       security and privacy requirements the overall system must meet. Note that this part of 
       your answer should only discuss security and privacy requirements and not describe how 
       to meet those requirements.
                                           [20 marks]
       (b) Describe, in detail, the most important security and privacy mechanisms you would 
       propose for the system to meet the requirements from part (a).
                                           [15 marks]
       (c) If you were a bad actor working for an entity violating people’s rights, describe how 
       you might most effectively attack or abuse this system, after the requirements from part 
       (a) have been satisfied?
                                            [5 marks]
                         Page 4 of 5
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                       Paper Code
           Question 4 
           (a) Describe the life-cycle of a typical second-level DNS name in a typical top level domain 
           (e.g. .com or .ie), from initial registration to eventual retirement, including the steps 
           required of all of the entities involved. Include a description of the security and privacy 
           considerations relevant at each stage in the process. 
                                                                    [15 marks]
           (b) The output from using the ``dig`` command to run a DNS query for the ‘jell.ie’ domain 
           is shown below when DNSSEC validation is requested:
           $ dig +dnssec jell.ie
           ; <<>> DiG 9.18.4-2ubuntu2.1-Ubuntu <<>> +dnssec jell.ie
           ;; global options: +cmd
           ;; Got answer:
           ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 44569
           ;; flags: qr rd ra ad; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 2, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1
           ;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
           ; EDNS: version: 0, flags: do; udp: 1232
           ;; QUESTION SECTION:
           ;jell.ie.            IN   A
           ;; ANSWER SECTION:
           jell.ie.        3600 IN   A     213.108.105.239
           jell.ie.        3600 IN   RRSIG A 8 2 3600 20230411141102 
           20230312131102 50256 jell.ie. 
           3JBP4mOqNNPGYZVtf2zUwjAuA30OgyCzXBQyK4LQqu+GUigGv3ns4kDn 
           0W778+KUXihgud5UTsRtCcC5gMReERgVK2hVA4+Uit/U3T53uIpmfXt7 
           ZYtDJZeAgzWmX+V3hfAPg6j28Sc7hLGohwCU+M2K+LoOiNzPb54dACjs OVQ=
           ;; Query time: 771 msec
           ;; SERVER: ::1#53(::1) (UDP)
           ;; WHEN: Tue Mar 14 01:00:46 GMT 2023
           ;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 219
           Describe the trust model and operation of DNSSEC, and the typical steps involved in 
           producing the response shown above.
                                                                    [15 marks]
           (c) An enterprise has been using split-horizon DNS for many years and use many names 
           that are only resolvable internally. How would you suggest that enterprise handle split-
           horizon DNS in the event that browsers commonly use the DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH) 
           protocol? In your opinion, what should browser-makers who support DoH do (or not do) 
           to avoid having a negative impact on such enterprise networks? Justify your opinion.
                                                                    [10 marks]
                                        Page 5 of 5
                        © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
