                                                      Paper Code
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                                                                        School of Computer Science & Statistics
                                        MSc in Computer Science                               Hilary Term 2024        Year 1
                                                        
                                                                 Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                                                                          CS7NS5/CSU44032
                                        dd MMM 2024                                           Location                                             Time (2 hours)
                                                                                         Dr. Stephen Farrell
                           Instructions to Candidates:
                           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks (40 each).
                           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so by the invigilator.
                           Materials Permitted for this examination:
                           N/A
                                             Paper Code
       Question 1
       2024 is a year with a lot of elections happening, in Ireland and elsewhere. A commercial 
       Irish news organisation are planning to create a new web site for election related news 
       that will have a mixture of their own locally generated articles and articles from other 
       news organisations. The site will allow users to comment on articles, with moderation. 
       They plan to use a new web content management system (CMS) for the new site, showing 
       advertising for non-paid users but with the option for a paid subscription to use the 
       service without advertising. Paid subscriptions are a new feature for the organisation. The 
       organisation are concerned about the risks associated with moving to a new CMS, moving 
       from purely advertising-driven web content to also supporting paid subscriptions, (a 
       “paywall”), and also with the potential for abuse from user comments including possibly 
       AI-generated comments. You are the employee tasked with carrying out a risk analysis of 
       this system, both during the planning phase and as it goes “live.”
       (a)   Describe the process you would use to carry out this task (note: this part of the 
       question asks about process, not the specific risks associated with the new system).
                                           [15 marks]
       (b) Describe three significant risks affecting the planned system, including their potential 
       impact and likelihood of occurrence, and outline countermeasures you would recommend 
       that the news organisation ought apply.
                                           [15 marks]
       (c) What risks that potentially affect end users should be considered, and what actions 
       would you recommend be taken to mitigate those risks?
                                           [10 marks]
                         Page 2 of 5
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 2
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, IPsec, or Kerberos) describe the 
       key management and application data protection aspects of the protocol in detail. 
       Describe how the cryptographic mechanisms used by your chosen protocol may affect 
       server performance at scale.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen protocol, but for TLS, 
       you must explicitly state which version you are describing.
                                           [25 marks]
       (b) Describe an application that can use your chosen protocol and that would be at risk in 
       the face of a cryptographically relevant quantum computer? What application-layer 
       mitigations and/or changes to your chosen protocol would you suggest to handle those 
       risks in the short term (this year), and in the medium term, e.g., in five years’ time?
                                           [10 marks]
       (c) What kinds of issues might arise should a server using your chosen protocol be 
       deployed on a small device, such as a home controller running on a home network?
                                            [5 marks]
                         Page 3 of 5
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 3 
       A regional transport authority (such as Transport for Ireland) provide a mobile application 
       that allows users to see bus/train timetables and real-time information, and that is very 
       widely used in the region. The application currently has a minimally invasive privacy 
       policy, providing the option to access information without an account or without requests 
       being easily identified as being from a particular device. Users do have the option to 
       create an account, e.g. to get email notifications, but few users enable this option.
       The local government and the transport authority now wish to enhance the mobile 
       application to help them better plan changes to transport routes and to monitor 
       pedestrian use of busier city-centre streets. This may require them to do some form of 
       (possibly per-user) tracking,  so they can accumulate information about, e.g., peaks and 
       troughs in pedestrian use of streets, the numbers of people making specific bus/train 
       transfers etc. However, adding such functionality clearly creates new potential privacy 
       issues and may not be well-accepted by users.
       You are tasked with designing a privacy-friendly enhancement to the mobile application 
       and related back-end systems to achieve the goals above.
       (a) Outline a design for the above enhancement (include diagrams as appropriate), and 
       state the security and privacy requirements the resulting overall system should meet. 
       Note that this part of your answer should only discuss security and privacy requirements 
       and not describe specific mechanisms to meet those requirements.
                                           [20 marks]
       (b) Describe, in detail, the most important security and privacy mechanisms you would 
       propose for the system to meet the requirements from part (a).
                                           [15 marks]
       (c) What are the best arguments you can provide for a) deploying the enhanced mobile 
       application as described, and b) for not deploying an enhanced mobile application at all?
                                            [5 marks]
                         Page 4 of 5
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 4 
       (a) Describe in detail how DNS query resolution for typical address records works, 
       including, at each stage, potential attacks and mitigations. How might the new HTTPS 
       resource record type affect browser performance if/when that is very widely deployed.
                                           [15 marks]
       (b) Describe the trust model and operation of DNSSEC, and the typical steps involved in 
       validating DNSSEC-signed DNS responses. Explain why the number of domains for which 
       DNSSEC is available is so small.
                                           [15 marks]
       (c) How do privacy issues arise in connection with the use of the DNS? How are those 
       affected by the use of DNS-over-TLS (DoT) or DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH)? What default DNS 
       privacy setup would you recommend for a current mobile operating system? Say why you 
       consider that a reasonable default, and how it would affect those privacy issues.
                                           [10 marks]
                         Page 5 of 5
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
