                  Paper Code
                                              
               Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                   School of Computer Science & Statistics
         MSc in Computer Science                Hilary Term 
         2018
         Year 1                                 
               Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                           CS7053/CS4474/...
         XX April 2018         LOCATION         09.30 – 11.30
                          Dr. Stephen Farrell
         Instructions to Candidates:
         Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks.
         You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so 
         by the invigilator.
         EXAM question text is bold, like this. 
         Exam solution text is “Courier New,” like this.
         Materials Permitted for this examination:
         N/A
                                            Paper Code
       Question 1.
       An Irish medium-sized manufacturing company has about 
       1000 employees, a small number of overseas ofces and some 
       dozens of   frequently travelling employees. The company 
       want to replace their existing in-house email infrastructure 
       and are considering how to do that, including deciding what 
       to continue to host themselves and what to outsource. They 
       ask you, as a security consultant, to do a risk analysis for 
       them, considering the security and privacy implications of a 
       new email system and of migration from the old to a new 
       system. 
       The   new   system   may   involve   updates   for   all   email 
       components: standard desktop, mobile and web user agents, 
       mail submission servers, inbound and outbound mail transfer 
       agents, message stores and security components such as 
       anti-spam and anti-malware systems. Existing accounts and 
       message store content will need to be migrated to the new 
       system as that is incrementally deployed. A very small 
       number of employees use PGP (mainly sysadmins) but most 
       users do not use of PGP or S/MIME. Some users currently use 
       third-party email systems, (such as gmail/hotmail), for work 
       email, as there is no policy in place about the use of such 
       third-party systems.
       (a) Describe the risk analysis process you would follow in 
       order to assist the company. (Note – this part of the answer is 
       about process, not the details of technical mechanisms for 
       email security.)
                                        [10 marks]
       The student should describe a method of identifying risks, 
       (e.g. for different mail system components such as servers, 
       MUAs etc perhaps also based on the corpus of existing mail 
       and usage patterns etc.), classifying them in terms of 
       impact and probability of occurrence, e.g. with 
       High/Medium/Low scores for each, and assigning an overall 
       (partial) order to the list. One then iterates, designing a 
       mitigation for the most imporant item on the list, and then 
       re-doing the analysis as necessary (since one mitigation 
       may affect the probability of other risks or may introduce 
       other risks). In practice, the process terminates when the 
       available effort is expended. In theory some other form of 
                       Page 2 of 10
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                                                              Paper Code
            termination might be described. Any answer that captures 
            most of this is fine.
            (b) Describe the most relevant risks (at least 3) you see for 
            the   new   system,   including   their   potential   impact   and 
            likelihood of occurrence, and outline the countermeasures 
            you would recommend that the company and/or their chosen 
            service providers (who provide out-sourced functions) ought 
            to implement to mitigate those risks. Risks that could emerge 
            during migration from the old to the new system are in scope 
            here.
                                                                      [25 marks]
            The student should take proper account of the context – the 
            existing email environment (with spam, phish etc), an SME 
            without much expertise, the existence of various suppliers 
                  rd
            and 3  party services, such as inbound filtering. The main 
            point is to describe a reasonable set of threats and 
            mitigations that approximates what might really be used. 
            The main thing here is to describe risks with their impact 
            and an estimate of probability of occurrence and to 
            concentrate on the more significant of those. The impact 
            and probability can take any value without losing marks, 
            but for something odd (e.g. if they considered phishing low 
            impact) they will need more justification for saying that. 
            If the impact/probability are fairly obviously right, less 
            needs to be said. Marking is out of 5 points for each good 
            one and with 3 more for overall goodness. Possible risks 
            would include:
                 Spam, phishing, malware etc.
                 Availability (lack therof) if all services handled in-
                  house
                 Lack of deliverability if servers badly configured 
                  (e.g. spf, dkim, dmarc)
                                           rd
                 Abuse of content if 3  parties used (e.g. malware 
                  scanners)
                 MUAs that render active content 
                 Badly configured MUAs e.g. on phones, MUAs that re-
                  direct to gmail
                                         Page 3 of 10
                 © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                                                                                Paper Code
                     Mail snooping via MX stealing or BGP
                     Spear-phish aimed at local PGP users
               (c)   Assume   the   company   had   instead   gone   ahead   and 
               deployed a new system without having done any risk analysis. 
               Describe some mistakes, not covered in part (b), that they 
               might have made?
                                                                                        [5 marks]
               Just marks-from-5 for a good answer. Obvious errors would 
               include not setting up spf,dkim,dmarc or allowing MUAs to 
               talk POP/IMAP in clear.
                                                   Page 4 of 10
                    © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                                         Paper Code
         Question 2. 
         (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, 
         S/MIME, IPsec, Kerberos) describe the key management and 
         application data protection aspects of the protocol in detail. 
         Include a description of how networking failures, (e.g. packet 
         drops, re-ordering), might afect use of your chosen protocol.
         Your answer may describe any widely used version of your 
         chosen protocol, but you need to state which version you are 
         describing. Choosing TLSv1.3 is allowed – you don’t need to 
         specify the exact Internet-draft version you’ve chosen in that 
         case. 
                                                   [20 marks]
         Marks-from-15 for a good description of the scheme, with 
         e.g. the TLS handshake and application layer properly 
         described. 5 marks for describing effects of network 
         failures esp if reactions to those covered.
         (b) Outline the ways in which the security of your chosen 
         protocol depends on other infrastructure such as the Internet 
         routing   system,   the   domain   name   system   or   a   key 
         management infrastructure. 
                                                   [10 marks]
         Main thing here is PKI – for issuance, renewal and 
         revocation status checking. CT is another. If TLS-stripping 
         is possible with an application, then DNS or BGP attacks 
         would work, but both DNS and BGP are depended-upon for 
         correct operation. Noting man-on-the-side attacks would be 
         a bonus. (That last only mentioned in class, not really 
         covered.)
         (c) State-level adversaries have diferent capabilities and 
         interests   when   compared   to   potential   industrial   or 
         commercial adversaries. Describe three ways in which the 
         threat-model for an implementation or deployment of your 
         chosen protocol would difer, when considering state-level 
         versus industrial or commercial adversaries.
                                                   [10 marks]
         Just simple bullets here would suffice, possible things 
         would include:
                              Page 5 of 10
            © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                                                                                Paper Code
                     state-level attackers can see the network and record 
                      traffic from many vantage points, e.g. undersea fibre 
                      termination points; industrial attackers will tend to 
                      have to target specific nodes to try get at a target
                     state-level attackers can bork implementations, e.g. 
                      like DUAL-EC attacking a system PRNG, or via physical 
                      implants into servers/routers; industrial attackers 
                      would need to breach each node
                     industrial attackers can be assumed to be economically 
                      rational,   whereas   state-level   attackers   are   not 
                      motivated to only go for the weakest link – threat 
                      models for the latter can be simpler as a result
                     state-level attackers are more likely to want ongoing 
                      access (via APT or exfiltration of keys), whereas 
                      industrial   attackers   are   more   likely   to   want 
                      application layer data
               If students don’t talk about threat models, but only about 
               specific threats, that’s ok, but will be marked a bit less.
                                                   Page 6 of 10
                    © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                            Paper Code
       Question 3. 
       TCD decide to plan for the increasingly common situation 
       where the campus must temporarily close due to a “red” 
       weather alert. The overall plan is to be able to switch into a 
       “remote-access” mode of operation where administrators, 
       academic staf and students can still do some work, even if 
       they cannot operate entirely normally. In “remote-access” 
       mode, (some) lectures will continue via the Internet, and 
       coursework assignments can be set, completed and marked. 
       Clearly, real-time exceptions will need to be handled, e.g., 
       due   to   network   problems.   More   fundamentally,   new 
       timetables/schedules and modes for student/staf interaction 
       will be needed to handle lecture timetabling and assignments 
       without over-burdening staf and students who will at the 
       same time be dealing with the physical disruption caused by 
       the inclement weather. 
       The university are at the early planning stages for this 
       system, and ask you to provide a design for a prototype 
       system to be trialled in the School of Computer Science and 
       Statistics. The prototype system will be tested via a planned 
       exercise that will only be announced a few days ahead of 
       time. That is, students, academic and support staf, will only 
       have 2-3 days notice that they are to switch into “remote-
       access” mode for one week, that they must not attend 
       campus during that week (relevant buildings will be locked), 
       and that they need to use the new system to do as much 
       “normal” work as possible. Before the exercise, students will 
       not   have   used   the   system   before,   but   they   will   have 
       undergone some training and HOWTOs and other guides will 
       be available online. You can assume staf have had more 
       training but are still quite unfamiliar with the system.
       (a) Outline your overall design for such a system (include a 
       network diagram and describe how scheduling is handled), 
       and state the security and privacy requirements the system 
       must meet. 
                                        [15 marks]
       This should be a fairly straightforward multimedia web 
       system, with feedback and assignment handling, but will 
       need some consideration of flexible schedules and e.g. 
                       Page 7 of 10
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                                                                                Paper Code
               instant messaging sessions. Giving students and staff new 
               credentials for this system is optional, but good to note 
               the possible issue. 
               For S&P requirements: 
                     authentication,   maybe   with   some   detection   of 
                      impersonation   (e.g.   track   multiple   devices   being 
                      used)
                     confidentiality   and   authorization,   student 
                      interactions   must   only   be   visible   to   authorized 
                      entities (if materials are publicly visible, that’s 
                      ok but different)
                     staff access is clearly different
                     scheduling system has separate authorization issues 
                     DoS risk from students who’d prefer to do nothing
                     etc.
               (b)   Describe,   in   detail,   the   security   solution   you   would 
               propose to meet those requirements. 
                                                                                       [20 marks]
               Could be a fairly simple use of Oauth with some MOOC or 
               similar (it’s ok if they go for a home-grown system and 
               not some MOOC/CMS) with the various roles defined. Should 
               really do everything over TLS, e.g. use WebRTC (ok that’s 
               DTLS-SRTP but whatever:-).
               Credential handling could fill pages here if they choose.
               (c) How would you handle evaluating the security and privacy 
               aspects of the system, before, during and after the planned 
               exercise?
                                                                                        [5 marks]
               Before: (Pen-)Testing, then more of that:-) Do a dry-run 
               if possible for one course and try attack that whilst the 
               test is in progress. Usage monitoring and audit. 
               Question 4. 
                                                   Page 8 of 10
                    © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                                                                                Paper Code
               (a) Describe three signifcant security and privacy diferences 
               between   real-world   end-to-end   and   hop-by-hop   security 
               mechanisms as used for interpersonal messaging, in email 
               and/or instant messaging systems.
                                                                                       [15 marks]
               Take mail:
                     e2e gives message body security but not headers; hbh 
                      covers headers but allows servers to see content; 
                      traffic analysis remains possible but differs in each 
                      case
                     e2e typically makes malware detectection harder
                     e2e is harder to deploy
                     hbh is vulnerable to e.g. DNS attacks (MX stealing)
                     etc.
               (b) Describe three signifcant barriers to the deployment of 
               Internet-scale end-to-end email security mechanisms such as 
               S/MIME or PGP. In each case, describe realistic actions you 
               would recommend that aim to at least partially overcome 
               those barriers.
                                                                                       [15 marks]
                     users don’t know the difference and aren’t motivated 
                      to figure it out
                     getting a cert for SMIME is too hard
                     finding public keys for peers is too hard (signed 
                      messages and PGP keystores don’t work so well)
                     e2e typically makes malware detectection harder
                     SMIME and PGP were designed in a one-MUA per person 
                      world, which is not today’s (private key mgmt is hard 
                      and needs new infrastructure)
                     SMIME and PGP clients both tend to fail with complex 
                      messages (many attachments, forwarded messages)
                     Large mail services (gmail etc) aren’t motivated to 
                      want to all deploy the same solution and are needed
                                                   Page 9 of 10
                    © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                                                                                Paper Code
                     etc.
               (c) If end-to-end email confdentiality became the norm, so 
               that most email messages were encrypted between sender 
               and recipient(s), what problems would that cause for email 
               system administrators, and how would you recommend they 
               address those issues?
                                                                                       [10 marks]
                     e2e   typically   makes   malware   detectection   harder; 
                      would need to move that to endpoints (MUAs) which 
                      costs (but is needed in any case for other reasons, 
                      e.g. malware arriving via https)
                     some admins like outbound mail scanning for good 
                      (malware spread) or bogus (IPR leak) reasons – can 
                      ensure MUAs bcc some admin a/c that can do all the 
                      scanning needed
                     spammers would use public key info to generate target 
                      lists – some novel form of access control would be 
                      needed (e.g. you can see a pulic key if you’ve 
                      previously interacted) but that’s a hard hard problem 
                      to solve while keeping mail deliverability
                                                  Page 10 of 10
                    © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
