                      Paper Code
                                                        
                  Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                       School of Computer Science & Statistics
           MSc in Computer Science  Hilary Term 2020             Year 1
                                              
                 EXAM SOLUTION 
                                NOTES
                   Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                  CS7NS5/CSU44032
           XX April 2020              LOCATION              09.30 – 11.30
                                 Dr. Stephen Farrell
           Instructions to Candidates:
           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks.
           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so 
           by the invigilator.
           Materials Permitted for this examination:
           N/A
           Exam questions are in bold Calibiri, like this.
           Solution notes are in Courier New, like this. 
                                           Paper Code
       Question 1.
       As part of a due-diligence exercise, you are hired to do a risk 
       analysis by a primarily online travel agency who are acquiring 
       a   competitor   in   a   market   dramatically,   but   hopefully 
       temporarily, shrinking due to the  COVID19  pandemic. The 
       targets for your analysis are the online booking systems 
       currently deployed by the company being acquired. New risks 
       that may be created due to the merger are in scope, as well 
       as an evaluation of the risks associated with the to-be-
       deployed company’s existing systems. The finances and other 
       general business issues related to the acquisition are handled 
       by others and need not be part of your risk analysis.
       (a)   Describe the risk analysis process you would follow in 
       order to assist the acquiring company. (Note – this part of the 
       answer   is   about  process,   not   the   details   of   technical 
       mechanisms for web-site security.)
                                        [10 marks]
       The student should describe a process of identifying risks, 
       classifying them in terms of impact and probability of 
       occurrence, e.g. with High/Medium/Low scores for each, and 
       assigning an overall (partial) order to the list. Normally, 
       one then iterates, designing a mitigation for the most 
       imporant item on the list, and then re-doing the analysis 
       as necessary (since one mitigation may affect the 
       probability of other risks or may introduce other risks). 
       In practice, the process terminates when the available 
       effort is expended. In this case, time is likely to be 
       tight during an acquisition and we’ll not be implementing 
       the mitigations but really just costing them. In theory 
       some other form of termination might be described. Any 
       answer that captures most of this is fine.
       In addition to the usual process above, students might 
       include: interviews of staff in to-be-acquired (TBA) 
       company, maybe a pentest, analysis of how these systems 
       match those in the acquiring company.
       (b) Describe the most relevant risks (at least 3) you see in 
       this scenario, including their potential impact and likelihood 
       of occurrence, and outline the countermeasures you would 
       recommend that the acquiring company ought implement or 
       deploy to mitigate those risks. 
                       Page 2 of 10
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                                                                              Paper Code
                                                                                       [25 marks]
               The student should take proper account of the context – 
               that these are existing systems and the lack of time. The 
               main point is to describe a reasonable set of threats and 
               potential costs/mitigations that approximates what might 
               really happen. 
               Risks should be described including estimates of impact and 
               probability of occurrence and they ought concentrate on the 
               more significant of those. Impact and probability can take 
               any value without losing marks, but for something odd (e.g. 
               if they considered lack of time to test low impact) more 
               justification is needed. If the impact/probability are 
               fairly obviously right, less needs to be said. Marking is 
               out of 7 points for each good one and with 4 more for 
               overall goodness. Possible risks would include:
                     Potential for admins/coders (esp to-be-fired people) 
                      to add backdoors or bork systems (but see part (c) – 
                      repeating stuff leads to less marks)
                     Systems from TBA might not scale sufficiently or might 
                      not match technical needs post-acquisition
                     TBA might have breached OSS license terms or someone 
                      else’s IPR
                     TBA might be in breach of some regulation (e.g. GDPR 
                      if TBA aren’t an EU-oriented company).
                     Incomplete analysis due to lack of time.
                     Usual web things: DDoS, injection, CSRF... probably 
                      wanna pentest ‘em.
                     Usual online things: server updates,... moar pentest.
                     Risk of mismatch preventing sensible post-acquisition 
                      merges of systems (over time) – chances are one 
                      wouldn’t want to maintain two different systems in the 
                      travel biz
               (c) It is often the case that the jobs or roles of systems 
               administrators   in   the   to-be-acquired   company   undergo 
               significant change, up to and frequently including job losses. 
               How would you recommend the acquiring company deal with 
                                                   Page 3 of 10
                    © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                                        Paper Code
         the risk of misbehaviour by such staff in the to-be-acquired 
         company?
         Main thing is to check the TBA systems have backups in 
         place so one could recover if this happens. Maybe ensure 
         there’s a (possibly special) backup made just before the 
         potential acquisition becomes known to TBA folks. Maybe put 
         in place extra system monitoring post-acquisition. Maybe 
         put some fairly trusted people from acquiring company in 
         place as sysadmins ASAP. Acquirer does have to trust 
         someone in TBA to not misbehave (e.g. head of engineering 
         in this case maybe). One idea might be for that person to 
         claim a big audit is needed for some spurious reason to get 
         TBA employees to produce stuff for the analysis without 
         giving the game away immediately. Or, if being evil: just 
         fire the lot of them on day1!
                                                     [5 marks]
                              Page 4 of 10
            © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                           Paper Code
       Question 2. 
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, 
       IPsec,   or   Kerberos)   describe   the   key   management   and 
       application data protection aspects of the protocol in detail. 
       Describe how your chosen protocol handles cryptographic 
       agility   and   how   that   might   affect   the   evolution   of 
       implementations and deployments over time.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your 
       chosen protocol, but you need to explicitly state which 
       version you are describing. 
       Marks-from-15 for a good description of the scheme, with 
       e.g. the TLS handshake and application layer properly 
       described. 5 marks for describing effects of APIs, e.g 0RTT 
       early-data issues, private key mgmt/HSMs, even simple tings 
       like threading.
                                        [20 marks]
       (b) Describe how some application uses your chosen protocol 
       highlighting   long-term   key   management and provisioning 
       issues. (For example you might describe how the web uses 
       TLS, or how SMTP uses STARTTLS.)  Include details of any 
       changes to that application that were required to integrate 
       with your chosen key exchange protocol. What security 
       services does your chosen key exchange protocol enable for 
       that application?
                                        [15 marks]
       If one took the web, usual things: html with href for 
       https/443 vs http/80, 30x handling, HSTS, CT, HPKP, SOP and 
       “secure” cookies, CONNECT proxying, browser cert GUI, TLS 
       client auth in browser. Server key gen and ACME/certbot, 
       web server configs (e.g. turn on/off TLS versions/algs). 
       Passing on TLS parameters to web applications (PHP/Python 
       etc).
       (c) For your chosen protocol, what guidance would you offer 
       today to an implementer concerned about attacks based on 
       quantum computing?
                                        [5 marks]
                       Page 5 of 10
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                           Paper Code
       Reasonable people can disagree here, so various good 
       answers are possible. If one is concerned about long-term 
       (30 year) confidentiality then one might want to mix in a PQ 
       alg into the TLS key exchange. If systems allowed it, 
       mixing in an AES256 PSK would be fine too. If concerned 
       about authentication, then you’re probably wrong:-) Main 
       advice I’d offer almost anyone is: do nothing yet, wait for 
       another year or two before doing anything.
                       Page 6 of 10
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                           Paper Code
       Question 3. 
       You   are   tasked   to   develop   a   desktop   or   smartphone 
       application for measuring the availability of web sites and 
       specific URLs. The application will use a curated list of domain 
       names and URLs and establish whether a web site at that 
       domain is operating and whether or not the configured URLs 
       are accessible. The application should be able to refresh the 
       curated list and also allow users to manage their local copy of 
       the list (e.g. allowing additions and deletions). The main 
       purpose of the application is to measure availability over time 
       but the application may also be used to detect censorship. If 
       the user allows, the application will upload results to a web 
       server at which (a version of) those will be made publicly 
       available. The application is primarily intended for use in 
       relatively safe environments, e.g., within a campus network 
       or a country with a “liberal” regime and little censorship.
       (a) Outline your overall design for such a system (include a 
       network   diagram),   and   state   the   security   and   privacy 
       requirements the application and overall system must meet. 
       Note that this part of your answer should only discuss 
       requirements   and   not   describe   how   to   meet   those 
       requirements.
                                        [15 marks]
       This question is based on OONI (https://ooni.org/) so the 
       more their answer is like that the better. OONI wasn’t 
       covered directly in clases (be too easy if it had:-), so 
       they should be reverse engineering those requirements, 
       which are mostly obvious. Privacy requirements around what 
       results to present on a web page can be non-trivial. 
       Similarly, the curator of the list could track people by 
       giving them different lists in various ways. Lastly, an 
       adversary who wants to skew the web page stats (e.g. to 
       show their site with great uptime) could run lots of 
       instances. A censor could similarly check the list to see 
       what’s on there and then block that.
       (b) Describe, in detail, the security and privacy solutions you 
       would propose to meet those requirements. 
                       Page 7 of 10
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                           Paper Code
                                        [20 marks]
       They should propose a way to meet each of the requirements 
       stated. The more secure, sensible, practical and easy, the 
       better. 
       (c)  While your application is mainly intended for use in 
       relatively safe environments, it could also be used by people 
       in more challenging situations, e.g., where even checking for 
       censored   content   is   significantly   risky.   What   additional 
       measures would you consider to try make your application 
       safer for such users?
                                         [5 marks]
       Again OONI has considered these issues to some extent. One 
       can range from just warning the user (e.g. based on  geoip 
       source address), not checking subsets of the list (e.g. 
       skip the “dangerous-in-country-X” entries in the list), to 
       attempting to hide the probe trafÏc (but that can be tricky 
       as we don’t want to change vantage point for this), up to 
       being able to zap the app or run the entire thing in some 
       hidden partition/container, in case the local cops try 
       strong-arm the user.
                       Page 8 of 10
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                                        Paper Code
         Question 4. 
         Note that, at the time of writing, the material for this 
         had not been covered in class. Assuming that remote 
         lectures work out ok, it should be covered before the end 
         of semester, but given how things are it may be necessary 
         to change this question later.
         (a) Describe the overall architecture of WebRTC and how a 
         voice call between two browsers works. Your description 
         should include the networking, security and privacy features 
         that are built-in to WebRTC.
                                                    [20 marks]
         A description that was even a bit like 
         https://github.com/webrtc-security/webrtc-security.github.io/blo
         b/master/index.md would be fine. 
         (b) What privacy issues would arise if WebRTC were to 
         replace all or almost all voice communications? For those you 
         consider significant concerns, how would you suggest they be 
         controlled or otherwise mitigated? For those where you are 
         sanguine as to the risks, justify your position.
                                                    [15 marks]
         The privacy issues mainly relate to tracking who talks with 
         whom, when and for how long. Both JS and IP based tracking 
         is possible. There’s a range of possible scenarios here and 
         a clever student will realise that. WebRTC might act to 
         further centralise voice if we ended up with ~10 major 
         service providers world-wide, or it might democratise it a 
         lot if we ended up with thousands or more. (But the same 
         goes for STUN/TURN servers as well of course.) OTOH, with 
         thousands, the chances of using a dodgy service provider 
         for one or more calls increases a lot. There will 
         eventually be something like a WebRTC/Tor but that’s not 
         there today. A separate privacy issue is that the browser 
         permission dialog being sticky allows an origin to mess 
         about on the browser user in ways that (I think) don’t make 
         sense for the user, but that browser makers do like.
         (c) If you were a criminal, what kinds of fraud would you 
         attempt using your own WebRTC services? How might you 
         attempt to avoid being caught?
                               Page 9 of 10
            © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
                                           Paper Code
                                         [5 marks]
       Almost all kinds of telephone fraud execept direct premium 
       rate trickery could use WebRTC, so picking almost anything 
       is fine. Likely fraud initiated with a spam mail. To hide: 
       use a hacked web server to host your JS. And probably abuse 
       someone else’s STUN/TURN servers. But be flexible in how you 
       do that or you’ll be more easily caught, so migrate your JS 
       from place to place as much as you can and vary your spam 
       campaigns and rotate who’s STUN/TURN you’re using. One 
       thing WebRTC might enable is more ad fraud while you’ve 
       lured someone into making a call.
                       Page 10 of 10
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2020
