                                                      Paper Code
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                                                                        School of Computer Science & Statistics
                                        MSc in Computer Science                               Hilary Term 2024        Year 1
                                                        
                                                                 Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                                                                          CS7NS5/CSU44032
                                        dd MMM 2024                                           Location                                             Time (2 hours)
                                                                                         Dr. Stephen Farrell
                                        EXAM SOLUTION NOTES
                           Instructions to Candidates:
                           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks (40 each).
                           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so by the invigilator.
                           Materials Permitted for this examination:
                           N/A
                           Exam questions are in bold, like this. Solution notes are 
                           in non-bold Courier New, like this. 
                                             Paper Code
       Question 1
       2024 is a year with a lot of elections happening, in Ireland and elsewhere. A commercial 
       Irish news organisation are planning to create a new web site for election related news 
       that will have a mixture of their own locally generated articles and articles from other 
       news organisations. The site will allow users to comment on articles, with moderation. 
       They plan to use a new web content management system (CMS) for the new site, 
       showing advertising for non-paid users but with the option for a paid subscription to use 
       the   service   without   advertising.   Paid   subscriptions   are   a   new   feature   for   the 
       organisation. The organisation are concerned about the risks associated with moving to 
       a new CMS, moving from purely advertising-driven web content to also supporting paid 
       subscriptions, (a “paywall”), and also with the potential for abuse from user comments 
       including possibly AI-generated comments. You are the employee tasked with carrying 
       out a risk analysis of this system, both during the planning phase and as it goes “live.”
       (a)  Describe the process you would use to carry out this task (note: this part of the 
       question asks about process, not the specific risks associated with the new system).
                                           [15 marks]
       The student should describe a process of identifying assets 
       (in this case including reputation) and risks, classifying 
       them in terms of impact and probability of occurrence, e.g. 
       with   High/Medium/Low   scores   for   each,   and   assigning   an 
       overall (partial) order to the list.  Normally,  one then 
       iterates, designing a mitigation for the most imporant item 
       on the list, and then re-doing the analysis as necessary 
       (since one mitigation may affect the probability of other 
       risks or may introduce other risks). In practice, the process 
       terminates when the available effort is expended. In this 
       case, assuming good internal s/w knowledge, seeking external 
       advice wrt risks associated with the perception of paywalls 
       and AI-generated comments/articles would seem useful. Any 
       answer   that   captures   most   of   this   is   fine,   as   are 
       descriptions of equally good alternative processes.
       Up to 10 marks for describing a reasonable process, 5 more 
       for overall goodness.
       (b) Describe three significant risks affecting the planned system, including their potential 
       impact   and   likelihood   of   occurrence,   and   outline   countermeasures   you   would 
       recommend that the news organisation ought apply.
                                           [15 marks]
                         Page 2 of 9
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                                                  Paper Code
               Up to 4 marks per risk, with 3 for overall goodness. A 
               baseline assumption here is to require an account (paid or 
               not) before allowing any user comments, sugesting otherwise 
               is a negative. Risks here are fairly obvious, but examples 
               include:
                     The new CMS may be buggy: check for history of CVEs and 
                      their handling, have a site-status X/insta/FB page, etc
                     If the new CMS has plug-ins, those may be buggy or badly 
                      maintained;   choose   carefully!   And   keep   an   eye   on 
                      developments. (Think wordpress, but don’t do that:-)
                     Admins might misconfigure the new CMS; get training
                     User comment moderation might be expensive and/or error-
                      prone (either over- or under-blocking); pay moderators 
                      properly, anyalyse their actions, setup policies ahead 
                      or time that are user-visible and maybe even selected 
                      with end-user input
                     Those involved in elections may try dominate or spam the 
                      comments on particular articles; have an AUP disallowing 
                      that, call it out when it happens (that last mitigation 
                      may add controversy)
                     Partner   organisations   might   provide   AI-generated 
                      articles; make it a contractual requirement that they do 
                      not.
                     Users might dislike the idea of a paywall, reducing 
                      site-visits and hence advertising revenue; explain why 
                      the paywall makes sense for small news orgs without 
                      scaring the punters too much about the real horrors of 
                      advertising (RTB etc.)
                     Non-paid users may use adblockers; provide some real 
                      added value for paid-users.
                     Competitors or overly-enthusiastic political fans might 
                      DDoS the site; use a good CDN for enough of the site to 
                      make that hard to have significant impact.
                     Outsourcing, via a CDN, or a moderation provider, risks 
                      various attacks; contracts and picking good providers 
                      that are audited
               (c) What risks that potentially affect end users should be considered, and what actions 
               would you recommend be taken to mitigate those risks?
                                                       Page 3 of 9
                                 © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                                                           Paper Code
                                                                                                       [10 marks]
                5 marks/risk, assuming one or two provided, e.g.:
                       Phishing attempts based on user account maintenance emails; 
                        don’t send such mails & make it clear to users they won’t get 
                        any real ones
                       Non-paid users without adblockers are likely exposed to the 
                        RTB system. Probably no mitigation from our news site.
                       Credential stuffing attacks here would be attractive to 
                        political parties or their operatives/supporters given an 
                        account (paid or not) is required for commenting. Provide 
                        some 2FA option, maybe a “Login via gmail etc.” and password 
                        strength indicators
                       Unusual/inventive risks get a bonus, if realistic (here and 
                        everywhere)
                                                            Page 4 of 9
                                   © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 2
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, IPsec, or Kerberos) describe the 
       key management and application data protection aspects of the protocol in detail. 
       Describe how the cryptographic mechanisms used by your chosen protocol may affect 
       server performance at scale.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen protocol, but for TLS, 
       you must explicitly state which version you are describing.
                                           [25 marks]
       Marks-from-15 for a good description of the scheme, with e.g. 
       the TLS handshake and application layer properly described. 5 
       marks for describing possible perf issues (e.g. 25519 vs. 
       p256 vs DH; use of AES NI etc.) and 5 for additional goodness 
       (e.g. covering optional TLS extensions/tickets etc).
       Historically, 95+% of students will very reasonably choose 
       TLS and those that do not tend to be well clued-in about 
       whatever else they pick (usually IPsec or Kerberos ‘cause 
       they’ve done some work on that)
       (b) Describe an application that can use your chosen protocol and that would be at risk 
       in the face of a cryptographically relevant quantum computer? What application-layer 
       mitigations and/or changes to your chosen protocol would you suggest to handle those 
       risks in the short term (this year), and in the medium term, e.g., in five years’ time?
                                           [10 marks]
       5 marks for describing an application that suffers today’s PQ 
       problem   properly   (record-now-decrypt-later)   and   other   PQ 
       issues (e.g. immaturity of algs, IPR on Kyber, ...); Example 
       could be anything processing genomic or health data. 5 marks 
       for covering hybrid TLS and justifying short/medium term 
       answers (which can vary depending on application).
       Note – this part of the question is exactly the same as last 
       year – but that’s justified as the topic is as or more 
       relevant   to   understand   this   year,   which   trumps   being 
       unpredictable in this case.
                         Page 5 of 9
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                                                  Paper Code
               (c) What kinds of issues might arise should a server using your chosen protocol be 
               deployed on a small device, such as a home controller running on a home network?
                                                                                               [5 marks]
               Straight marks from 5 for overall goodness, issues, assuming 
               chosen protocol is TLS, may include:
                     the BIG one: no easy/generic way to get a TLS server 
                      cert for 10.0.0.x or 192.168.x.y
                     if one swaps out either client or server you likely need 
                      to reconfigure the other one from scratch
                     UIs for such devices tend to make complex configuration 
                      very hard
                     if client and server from different vendors, ways to do 
                      (re-)configuration may not be commensurate
                     client might assume there’s a working DNS name for 
                      server, bringing mDNS dependencies into the picture
                                                       Page 6 of 9
                                 © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 3 
       A regional transport authority (such as Transport for Ireland) provide a mobile 
       application that allows users to see bus/train timetables and real-time information, and 
       that is very widely used in the region. The application currently has a minimally invasive 
       privacy policy, providing the option to access information without an account or without 
       requests being easily identified as being from a particular device. Users do have the 
       option to create an account, e.g. to get email notifications, but few users enable this 
       option.
       The local government and the transport authority now wish to enhance the mobile 
       application to help them better plan changes to transport routes and to monitor 
       pedestrian use of busier city-centre streets. This may require them to do some form of 
       (possibly per-user) tracking,  so they can accumulate information about, e.g., peaks and 
       troughs in pedestrian use of streets, the numbers of people making specific bus/train 
       transfers etc. However, adding such functionality clearly creates new potential privacy 
       issues and may not be well-accepted by users.
       You are tasked with designing a privacy-friendly enhancement to the mobile application 
       and related back-end systems to achieve the goals above.
       (a) Outline a design for the above enhancement (include diagrams as appropriate), and 
       state the security and privacy requirements the resulting overall system should meet. 
       Note that this part of your answer should only discuss security and privacy requirements 
       and not describe specific mechanisms to meet those requirements.
                                           [20 marks]
       8 marks for overall design, e.g. privacy-friendly potential; 
       8 marks for  more obvious requirements identified 4 more for 
       overall goodness. Basically some obvious design options exist 
       here, from full location-enabled snooping on a per-user 
       basis, to inferring approx statistics from existing traffic 
       (if asking about Dublin bus/stop 400, user is likely near 
       TCD/Pearse St.), to complicated privacy-preserving metrics 
       (not   covered   in   class,   so   not   expected   here).   Privacy 
       requirements relatively obvious (less invasive == better), 
       for security, provider doesn’t want users to be able to spoof 
       one another, esp not in (fake) crowds, otherwise usual mobile 
       web app + servers stuff (e.g. DDoS resilient).
       As   usual   some   students   will   mix   up   requirements   & 
       implementation/mechanisms (i.e. parts (a) & (b)) but I’ll be 
       lenient on that.
                         Page 7 of 9
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                                                           Paper Code
                (b) Describe, in detail, the most important security and privacy mechanisms you would 
                propose for the system to meet the requirements from part (a).
                                                                                                       [15 marks]
                Marks from 10 for workable and privacy-friendly answers, or, for 
                good justification of less privacy-friendly answers, with 5 more 
                for inclusion of less obvious things. The privacy spectrum here is 
                roughly, from:
                       ask to turn on accounts & GPS and track every app user as 
                        much as possible reporting full detail to servers while 
                        downplaying the invasiveness of that to users in public 
                        statements and policy text
                        to:
                       arrange someone independent and “trusted” (e.g. an EFF-like 
                        body such as ICCL here in Ireland, privacy international in 
                        the UK maybe), to act as a proxy for receiving privacy-
                        preserving metrics as to which of a few named streets/bus-
                        stops one was “at” sometime in the last N hours – then have 
                        the   back-end   servers   make   queries   on   that   proxy   for 
                        statistics.
                There’re lots of possible designs here, basic marking idea is more 
                marks the more practical and privacy-friendly the mechanisms, *or* 
                the better the justification for use of privacy un-friendly 
                mechanisms.
                (c) What are the best arguments you can provide for a) deploying the enhanced mobile 
                application as described, and b) for not deploying an enhanced mobile application at all?
                                                                                                        [5 marks]
                It’s ok if the arguments provided are at the political/policy 
                level and not at the technical level. Most marks if both pro- and 
                anti- arguments are equally good.
                There’s an interesting argument, that, if made anywhere, will 
                garner some bonus points: the more a mechanism is really privacy-
                friendly the harder it probably is to explain to users, (e.g. k-
                anonymity, various crypto things), making it, very quickly, harder 
                for users to distinguish services really trying to do the right 
                things for privacy, versus those services that only emit the 
                canonical   “we   care   deeply   about…”   while   actually   doing   the 
                opposite.
                                                            Page 8 of 9
                                   © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 4 
       (a) Describe in detail how DNS query resolution for typical address records works, 
       including, at each stage, potential attacks and mitigations. How might the new HTTPS 
       resource record type affect browser performance if/when that is very widely deployed.
                                           [15 marks]
       Marks-from-7 for a reasonable description of the stub, recursive, 
       authoritative resolver actions with/without a cold-cache. 5 marks 
       for documenting attacks/mitigations for each stage with e.g. a 
       good description of DNS poisoning getting 3. 3 marks for knowing 
       how HTTPS RRs might affect performance, maybe a bonus if they note 
       the A RR vs. HTTPS RR ipv4hint duplication problem for stubs that 
       run a race between queries for A/AAAA and HTTPS. (IOW, seeing the 
       problems we try solve via happy eyeballs.)
       (b) Describe the trust model and operation of DNSSEC, and the typical steps involved in 
       validating DNSSEC-signed DNS responses. Explain why the number of domains for which 
       DNSSEC is available is so small.
                                           [15 marks]
       8 marks for describing DNSSEC well and 2 more for extra 
       goodness, e.g. if they included NSEC or CDS/CDNSKEY or 
       similar. 5 marks for reasonable description of why we have 
       single-digit DNSSEC deployment – the DS at parent issue, 
       registrant→registry comms required, KSK rotation etc.
       (c) How do privacy issues arise in connection with the use of the DNS? How are those 
       affected by the use of DNS-over-TLS (DoT) or DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH)? What default DNS 
       privacy setup would you recommend for a current mobile operating system? Say why 
       you consider that a reasonable default, and how it would affect those privacy issues.
                                           [10 marks]
       4 marks for describing privacy issues well (act of accessing 
       name from IP at time, sets of qnames being identifying etc.). 
       3 marks for correctly stating the effects of DoT/DoH (with 
       maybe a bonus if done really well, e.g. noting that there are 
       displacement issues at play) and 3 marks for a well justified 
       non-crazy default, which may well be Do53 ‘cause DoT as an OS 
       default does imply some failure cases we might not yet be 
       willing to bear.
                         Page 9 of 9
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
