                                                      Paper Code
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                                                                        School of Computer Science & Statistics
                                                      MSc in Computer Science                              Hilary Term 2023        Year 1
                                                                                                      
                                                                 Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                                                                          CS7NS5/CSU44032
                                        dd MMM 2023                                           Location                                             Time (2 hours)
                                                                                         Dr. Stephen Farrell
                                        EXAM SOLUTION NOTES
                           Instructions to Candidates:
                           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks (40 each).
                           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so by the invigilator.
                           Materials Permitted for this examination:
                           N/A
                           Exam questions are in bold, like this. Solution notes are 
                           in non-bold Courier New, like this. 
                                             Paper Code
       Question 1
       Cost of living increases have been newsworthy in recent years. In Ireland the Central 
       Statistics OfÏce (CSO) calculate the Consumer Price Index (CPI) by monitoring price 
       changes for a selected basket of goods. “Each month, approximately 80 price collectors 
       collect approximately 50,000 price quotations directly from shops, department stores, 
       supermarkets, petrol stations, etc. in 84 cities and towns throughout Ireland. Another 
       3,000 prices are collected centrally by the CSO on a monthly basis using postal, e-mail 
       and telephone enquiries along with Internet price collection.”(*) Currently, price 
       collectors submit paper reports to the CSO that are then processed centrally. The CSO 
       are considering replacing this manual system with a system based around using a mobile 
       phone app running on the collector’s own device. The app’s basic function is to allow 
       entry of store and product pricing information and uploading of that to a CSO server for 
       subsequent processing. The CSO however, are concerned about potential risks that 
       might invalidate their CPI statistics and/or damage their reputation, so before going 
       ahead with developing the app, they hire you as a consultant to carry out a risk analysis 
       of the planned new system.
       (a)  Describe the process you would use to carry out this task (note: this part of the 
       question asks about process, not the specific risks associated with the new system).
                                           [15 marks]
       The student should describe a process of identifying assets 
       and   risks,   classifying   them   in   terms   of   impact   and 
       probability of occurrence, e.g. with High/Medium/Low scores 
       for each, and assigning an overall (partial) order to the 
       list. Normally, one then iterates, designing a mitigation for 
       the most imporant item on the list, and then re-doing the 
       analysis as necessary (since one mitigation may affect the 
       probability of other risks or may introduce other risks). In 
       practice, the process terminates when the available effort is 
       expended. In this case, interviewing CSO staff to identify 
       statistical risks would seem useful, as would identifying 
       BYOD   risks   associated   with   collectors.   Any   answer   that 
       captures most of this is fine, as are descriptions of equally 
       good alternative processes.
       Up to 10 marks for describing a reasonable process, 5 more 
       for overall goodness.
                         Page 2 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       (b) Describe three significant risks affecting the planned system, including their potential 
       impact   and   likelihood   of   occurrence,   and   outline   countermeasures   you   would 
       recommend that the CSO ought apply.
                                           [15 marks]
       Up to 4 marks per risk, with 3 for overall goodness. Risks 
       here are fairly standard for any BYOD/app/server setup, but 
       examples include:
       - DDoS against CSO server making CPI announcements late; 
       mitigation: put server behind an anti-DDoS service
       - Accidental bugginess in app, e.g. triggered by an OS 
       update, causing lack of updates for many collectors and 
       costly   fallback   to   paper   system;   mitigation:   testing/CI 
       setup, measure used-device diversity, maybe have a set of 
       backup devices ready to ship to collectors if needed
       - Client/app authentication creds (as used to CSO server) 
       could leak, e.g. if only API-key or long-lived JWT used to 
       authenticate device connections; mitigation: periodic full 
       re-authentication of client, perhaps requiring a montly code 
       sent via SMS to collectors or similar
       - CSO server DNS name or certificate expiry; mitigation: good 
       processes in CSO, auto-renewal for names (via registrar) and 
       certs (via acme)
       - collector upload failures, e.g. lack of credit on device or 
       failure of home WiFi; mitigation: ability to re-do uploads 
       later, even possibly significantly later
       -   registrar-hack   causing   loss   of   control   of   DNS   name; 
       mitigation: registrar-locks or similar
       - Badly coded app could enable pervasive collusion between 
       collectors, stores or product makers if e.g. another on-
       device app can manipulate app data (possibly via rooted 
       device); mitigation: pentesting/app hardening
       - app could enable collectors to more easily fake doing 
       actual price checks; mitigation: perhaps require a proof-of-
       life type picture periodically
       (c) What risks that potentially affect collectors should the CSO consider, and what 
       actions would you recommend they take to mitigate those risks?
                                           [10 marks]
                         Page 3 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                Paper Code
          If 2 risks identified, 3 marks for each and 4 for overall 
          goodness.
          - If app uses location, or regularly collects and uploads any 
          other   meta-data,   collectors   could   be   tracked   by   CSO; 
          mitigation: don’t do that, and make a DPIA available to 
          collectrors
          - Collectors could lose money if app/device malfunctions; 
          mitigation: a good app and a regularly used fallback for 
          collectors with malfunctioning devices (maybe shipping temp 
          device to collector)
          - Collectors could accidentally expose private information, 
          esp if e.g. a proof-of-life photo were demanded, that could 
          include other people such as a child; mitigation: minimise 
          requirement for photo upload, delete such data asap, train 
          collectors about the risk
          (*) The quote is from [1] (for anyone who’d like to check after the exam:-), but the mechanics of current 
          and planned collection systems are invented for the purposes of the question.
          [1] https://www.cso.ie/en/media/csoie/methods/consumerpriceindex/introductiontocpi16.pdf
                                    Page 4 of 10
                     © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 2
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, IPsec, or Kerberos) describe the 
       key management and application data protection aspects of the protocol in detail. 
       Describe how an implementation of your chosen protocol could be vulnerable to timing 
       attacks.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen protocol, but you 
       must explicitly state which version. 
                                           [25 marks]
       Marks-from-15 for a good description of the scheme, with e.g. 
       the TLS handshake and application layer properly described. 5 
       marks for describing possibly timing issues (Bleichenbacher 
       etc.) and 5 for additional goodness (e.g. covering TLS 
       extensions/tickets etc).
       (b) Describe an application that can use your chosen protocol and that would be at risk 
       in the face of a cryptographically relevant quantum computer? What application-layer 
       mitigations and/or changes to your chosen protocol would you suggest to handle those 
       risks in the short term (this year), and in the medium term, e.g., in five years’ time?
                                           [10 marks]
       5 marks for describing an application that suffers today’s PQ 
       problem properly (ciphertext collection) and other PQ issues 
       (e.g. immaturity of algs, IPR on Kyber, ...); Example could 
       be anything processing genomic or health data. 5 marks for 
       covering hybrid proposals and justifying short/medium term 
       answers (which can vary depending on application).
       (c) What kinds of automated pre-release (or continuous integration) testing would you 
       suggest be put in place for developers of implementations of your chosen protocol?
                                            [5 marks]
       2 marks for covering typical CI tests e.g. triggered by every 
       commit to a PR or similar, 3 more for security relevant 
       things, e.g. fuzzing, tests with bad integrity, wrong keys 
       etc.
                         Page 5 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Question 3 
       A well-funded global human rights organisation plan to develop a new web-based 
       system to allow small human rights defender groups to apply for funding for projects 
       aiming to monitor possible rights violations. A typical project would involve less than 
       US$50k in funding, would run for 3 to 6 months and might involve collating evidence of 
       rights violations by state or commercial actors that can be confirmed later by others, 
       e.g. mainstream media. (The ability to confirm evidence collected is an important 
       requirement.) Other projects might involve training people to better use technology for 
       evidence collection, in ways that don’t put the collector at undue risk. 
       Application processing has to be fast, with a goal of providing funds for successful 
       applications in a few weeks, in order to be able to react to events as they arise. As with 
       any funding scheme, applications need to be reviewed by external technical, legal and 
       ethics experts, and funding should be targeted towards applicants with good reputation. 
       However, unlike many funding schemes, the application content and the identities of 
       those working on funded projects can be highly sensitive - in some cases exposing 
       application details could put lives at risk, so fine-grained confidentiality is required for 
       the proposed system. 
       The funder will operate the web site that allows applicants to submit and track the 
       progress of their applications, and that provides (some) access to outside experts who 
       will evaluate relevant part(s) of the applications. Lastly, the funder also has to be 
       accountable for the funds distributed, so needs to be able to provide information about 
       the efÏcacy of funded projects, but again without creating risk for those executing 
       funded projects.
       (a) Outline a design for the overall system (include diagrams as appropriate), and state 
       the security and privacy requirements the overall system must meet. Note that this part 
       of your answer should only discuss security and privacy requirements and not describe 
       how to meet those requirements.
                                           [20 marks]
       8 marks for overall design, e.g. diagram showing roles; 8 
       marks for  more obvious requirements identified 4 more for 
       overall goodness. Basically an obvious web-based system but 
       with strong authentication, and likely managed pseudonyms for 
       applicants, also with strong separation of roles linked to 
       access   to   parts   of   application   content.   Roles:   admin, 
       applicant,   evaluator   (tech,     legal,   ethics),   auditor 
       (finance/real   identities).   Likely   selective   field 
       confidentiality   for   different   parts   of   applications. 
                         Page 6 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       Including   incident-handling   plans   is   good.   Notification 
       system   (e.g.   result   available)   should   also   preserve 
       confidentiality   and   not   expose   applicant   e.g.   if   email 
       monitored.
       As   usual   some   students   will   mix   up   requirements   & 
       implementation/mechanisms (i.e. parts (a) & (b)) but I’ll be 
       lenient on that.
       (b) Describe, in detail, the most important security and privacy mechanisms you would 
       propose for the system to meet the requirements from part (a).
                                           [15 marks]
       Marks from 10 for hitting the obvious points, with 5 more for 
       inclusion of less obvious things. Obvious things:
       - User authentication with 2FA for all roles
       - Good list of roles
       - General server goodness: pentesting; no external JS/CSS 
       dependencies, modern TLS setup etc.
       - Arguments could be made for self-hosting server but care 
       needed wrt IP address tracking, so one could argue using an 
       AWS/Azure instance better
       - separating application into different parts, differently 
       visible to different roles
       - encrypting application content at rest using selective 
       field confid with access to keys tied to roles
       - minimal notifications
       Less obvious (perhaps):
       - Provide a Tor .onion server for applicants to use
       - If/when ECH becomes widely available, move server to CDN 
       that supports ECH
       - Separate applicant pseudonyms vs. real identities but with 
       persistent pseudonyms (for reputation)
       - Training for applicants wrt what to put in what parts of 
       application so as to preserve pseudonymity; how to use a 
       public recursive etc.
       - Require auditors to flag some project(s) before they see 
       real identities
       - Create an innocuous fake project that real projects can 
       pretend to have been doing if their funding becomes known
                         Page 7 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       (c) If you were a bad actor working for an entity violating people’s rights, describe how 
       you might most effectively attack or abuse this system, after the requirements from part 
       (a) have been satisfied?
                                            [5 marks]
       Straight marks from 5, with more marks for sneakier attacks. 
       Possibles:
       - Obvious: DDoS server, get govt. to block server IPs/DNS 
       names, leverage OSINT to identify funded people 
       - sybil attacks using ChatGPT generated applications to 
       overwhelm process
       - get a spy inside the funder as an employee, or inside 
       mainstream media who’ve confirmed evidence
       - try identify project participants via staged actions or 
       traitor-tracing 
                         Page 8 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                Paper Code
          Question 4 
          (a) Describe the life-cycle of a typical second-level DNS name in a typical top level 
          domain (e.g. .com or .ie), from initial registration to eventual retirement, including the 
          steps required of all of the entities involved. Include a description of the security and 
          privacy considerations relevant at each stage in the process. 
                                                              [15 marks]
          Marks-from-8 for a good description of the life-cycle with 
          all players and basic DNSSEC included and potential security 
          issues (e.g. hack registrar) mentioned. The other 7 for 
          describing security/privacy issues well, e.g. whois data, 
          rgistrar a/c hijack, registrar hacks, lookalike domains etc.
          (b) The output from using the ``dig`` command to run a DNS query for the ‘jell.ie’ 
          domain is shown below when DNSSEC validation is requested:
          $ dig +dnssec jell.ie
          ; <<>> DiG 9.18.4-2ubuntu2.1-Ubuntu <<>> +dnssec jell.ie
          ;; global options: +cmd
          ;; Got answer:
          ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 44569
          ;; flags: qr rd ra ad; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 2, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1
          ;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
          ; EDNS: version: 0, flags: do; udp: 1232
          ;; QUESTION SECTION:
          ;jell.ie.          IN   A
          ;; ANSWER SECTION:
          jell.ie.      3600 IN   A    213.108.105.239
          jell.ie.      3600 IN   RRSIG A 8 2 3600 20230411141102 
          20230312131102 50256 jell.ie. 
          3JBP4mOqNNPGYZVtf2zUwjAuA30OgyCzXBQyK4LQqu+GUigGv3ns4kDn 
          0W778+KUXihgud5UTsRtCcC5gMReERgVK2hVA4+Uit/U3T53uIpmfXt7 
          ZYtDJZeAgzWmX+V3hfAPg6j28Sc7hLGohwCU+M2K+LoOiNzPb54dACjs OVQ=
          ;; Query time: 771 msec
          ;; SERVER: ::1#53(::1) (UDP)
          ;; WHEN: Tue Mar 14 01:00:46 GMT 2023
          ;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 219
          Describe the trust model and operation of DNSSEC, and the typical steps involved in 
          producing the response shown above.
                                                              [15 marks]
          5 marks for a good description of basic DNS recursion; 7 
          marks for describing DNSSEC well and 3 more for overall 
          goodness, e.g. if they included CDS/CDNSKEY or similar or 
          discuss non-obvious specifics of the DNS query shown (e.g. 
          flags, server is on localhost, EDNS).
                                    Page 9 of 10
                     © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                             Paper Code
       (c) An enterprise has been using split-horizon DNS for many years and use many names 
       that are only resolvable internally. How would you suggest that enterprise handle split-
       horizon DNS in the event that browsers commonly use the DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH) 
       protocol? In your opinion, what should browser-makers who support DoH do (or not do) 
       to avoid having a negative impact on such enterprise networks? Justify your opinion.
                                           [10 marks]
       The students will need to figure this out themselves as we’ll 
       only briefly have mentioned it in class (and today, nobody 
       knows for sure what’ll actually happen). We won’t have 
       covered ADD in class. Likely options include browser builds 
       with corp. setup that don’t do DoH or only to in-house 
       revursives, doing nothing and saying that enterprises should 
       get rid of split-horizon and just put it all out there, 
       browser detecting some local config enterprise can set e.g. 
       in their own recursives or in-house authoratitives that 
       control   how   DoH   is   done   (possibly   with   some   form   of 
       authentication required). Most of those could be defended, 7 
       marks for describing something sensible that could work, 3 
       for how well they justify it as reasonable.
                         Page 10 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
