                                                      Paper Code
                                                                                                                                          
                                                                Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                                                                         School of Computer Science & Statistics
                                         MSc in Computer Science                              Hilary Term 2025        Year 1
                                                        
                                        EXAM SOLUTION NOTES
                                                                 Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                                                                                          CS7NS5/CSU44032
                                         dd MMM 2025                                          Location                                              Time (2 hours)
                                                                                          Dr. Stephen Farrell
                           Instructions to Candidates:
                           Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks (40 each).
                           You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so by the invigilator.
                           Materials Permitted for this examination:
                           N/A
                           Exam questions are in bold, like this. Solution notes are 
                           in non-bold Courier New, like this.
                                                  Paper Code
       Question 1
       An Irish ISP is planning to deploy an upgraded customer support chatbot for their web 
       site using a new Large Language Model (LLM) with additional training using general 
       company data. The chatbot will also have access to live customer data. Chatbot training 
       and testing is to be carried out using a mixture of ISP staff and contractors. The 
       underlying LLM requires use of the LLM provider’s online service via the APIs defined for 
       that service, but company-specific and customer data are stored in databases that are 
       operated by the ISP. You are tasked to carry out a risk analysis to help inform the ISP of 
       the risks they may face during training, deployment and use of the new chatbot.
       You may assume any realistic setup for LLM training and runtime access. Bear in mind 
       that your answer should be about risk analysis, risks  and mitigations, and not (so much) 
       about LLMs, so you do not need to be highly specific or accurate as to LLM details. You 
       can also assume that the chatbot is only offered via the ISP’s web site and don’t need to 
       consider other channels such as instant messaging platforms etc.
       (a)  Describe the process you would use to carry out this task (note: this part of the 
       question asks about process, not the specific risks associated with the new system).
                                           [15 marks]
       The student should describe a process of identifying assets 
       (in this case including reputation) and risks, classifying 
       them in terms of impact and probability of occurrence, e.g. 
       with   High/Medium/Low   scores   for   each,   and   assigning   an 
       overall (partial) order to the list.  Normally,  one then 
       iterates, designing a mitigation for the most imporant item 
       on the list, and then re-doing the analysis as necessary 
       (since one mitigation may affect the probability of other 
       risks or may introduce other risks). In practice, the process 
       terminates when the available effort is expended. In this 
       case,   processes   for   safety   checking   LLMs   aren’t   well-
       established so we’ll allow some flexibility if the answer is 
       sane. Any answer that captures most of this is fine, as are 
       descriptions of equally good alternative processes.
       Up to 10 marks for describing a reasonable process, 5 more 
       for overall goodness.
       (b) Describe three significant risks affecting the planned system, including their potential 
       impact   and   likelihood   of   occurrence,   and   outline   countermeasures   you   would 
       recommend that the ISP ought apply.
                                           [15 marks]
       Up to 4 marks per risk, with 3 for overall goodness. Risks here 
       are fairly obvious, but examples include:
                         Page 2 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                                                                        Paper Code
                       The LLM may generate bad answers that annoy users and damage 
                        the ISP’s reputation
                       The LLM may generate answers that ISP customers like, but 
                        that are not consistent with the ISP’s business choices, e.g. 
                        a hallucinated offer or rate 
                       Chat messages/LLM prompts may contain sensitive customer data 
                        that could be abused by the LLM operator
                       ISP corporate data and/or customer data may end up in LLM 
                        prompts and hence leak to the LLM operator
                       The LLM may be attacked via other LLM instances, if training 
                        data and/or prompts are stored and re-used for “improving” 
                        the LLM
                       Customers might get access to other customers’ data if the 
                        overall system stores disussions
                       The LLM operator APIs may be subject to DoS or other attack
                       LLM operator API keys may leak
                       The LLM chatbot may be better than the (presumed) backup 
                        human   chat   operators,   leading   to   employee/contractor 
                        disgruntlement
                       The LLM operators or contractors helping the ISP might be 
                        overly optimistic about the LLM’s capabilities
                       The chatbot integration with APIs for customer data might 
                        (eventually) lead to undesirable changes being made to the 
                        customer database if any “agent” capability is included
                       Customers might game the LLM e.g. attempting prompt injection 
                        or whatever recent LLM attacks are discovered after the 
                        system is deployed.
                (c) What risks that potentially affect end users should be considered, and what actions 
                would you recommend be taken to mitigate those risks?
                                                                                                       [10 marks]
                5 marks/risk, assuming one or two provided, e.g.:
                       Cross-customer data leakage – needs good internal API design 
                        and test
                       Bad advice from LLM – needs good LLM training and perhaps 
                        some supervision, esp in early deployment
                       LLM might insult customer – as above
                                                           Page 3 of 10
                                   © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                                                                        Paper Code
                       Frustration   with   human   operators   if   LLM   is   better   at 
                        answering and human operators don’t understand – ensure human 
                        operators see previous chats and are trained to know what is 
                        good/bad from the LLM
                       Customers may be lead into including more private information 
                        in prompts/chats that may leak to LLM operator – impose tight 
                        constraints on the kinds/duration of chats via the LLM
                                                           Page 4 of 10
                                   © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                  Paper Code
       Question 2
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, IPsec, or Kerberos) describe the 
       key management and application data protection aspects of the protocol in detail. 
       Describe how a library developer, for example the OpenSSL project for the TLS protocol, 
       might test their implementation.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen protocol, but for TLS, 
       you must explicitly state which version you are describing.
                                           [25 marks]
       Marks-from-15 for a good description of the scheme, with e.g. 
       the TLS handshake and application layer properly described. 5 
       marks   for   describing   possible   test   setups   well,   5   for 
       additional   goodness   (e.g.   covering   optional   TLS 
       extensions/tickets etc).
       Historically, 95+% of students will very reasonably choose 
       TLS and those that do not tend to be well clued-in about 
       whatever else they pick (usually IPsec or Kerberos ‘cause 
       they’ve done some work on that)
       (b) Outline the ways in which the security of your chosen protocol depends on other 
       infrastructure such as the Internet routing system, the domain name system or a key 
       management infrastructure, such as the Web-PKI for TLS as used in the web.
                                           [10 marks]
       Most protocols will depend on routing for nominal operation 
       but (hopefully not) security; there may be privacy issues 
       with mis-routed connections, e.g. enabling traffic analysis. 
       Most dependencies of TLS on the Web-PKI are pretty obvious, 
       but better if the student also describes the ACME protocol, 
       as well as the CA. How the Web-PKI depends on the DNS, being 
       part of that. (There is overlap between this and Q4(b), but a 
       good student will see that and describe different things.) 
       Getting as far as describing DNS confusables would get some 
       extra marks as would considerations of data centre/hoster 
       internal security.
       (c) What security-relevant differences might arise for enterprises when comparing self-
       hosted versus cloud-hosted deployments of your chosen protocol?
                                            [5 marks]
       The main differences are the obvious ones: control vs. 
       cost/reliability/scalability. A student might describe some 
                         Page 5 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                  Paper Code
       kind of hosting enclave setup for keys (such as AWS provide) 
       which’d get more marks.
                         Page 6 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                  Paper Code
       Question 3 
       The Irish national health authority (the Health Services Executive, HSE) have recently 
       (February 2025) introduced the “HSE Health App,” a mobile app for the IOS and Android 
       platforms that allows users to access public healthcare information, but to also (for 
       authenticated users) manage appointments with healthcare providers, store vaccination 
       and medicine/prescription information, and with additional functions to be added over 
       time. The app interacts with various back-end services operated by (or for) the HSE as 
       well as with services operated by other healthcare providers (e.g. hospital groups, 
       general practitioners). Generally, the system is a fairly typical mobile web application 
       using APIs provided by services, with some server-server interactions in the background, 
       but this system is dealing with highly sensitive healthcare information and is intended to 
       eventually be used at the scale of the entire population, so security and privacy has to 
       be a primary consideration and we can be sure the system will be attacked by various 
       bad actors.
       For the purposes of this question, assume we are back at the start of the design process 
       and you are tasked with producing a security and privacy design for the overall system. 
       In answering, pay attention to the marks allocated for each of parts (a)-(c) below.
       (a) Outline a design for the overall system (include diagrams as appropriate), and state 
       the security and privacy requirements the overall system should meet. Note that this 
       part of your answer should only discuss security and privacy requirements and not 
       describe specific mechanisms to meet those requirements.
                                           [20 marks]
       8 marks for overall design which is mostly obvious, but 
       paying attention to server-server connections/requirements 
       gets more; 8 marks for  more obvious requirements identified, 
       4 more for overall goodness. Actual HSE app authentication is 
       linked to Irish MyGovID, but students don’t need to say that. 
       Due to population-scale goal, good audit requirements should 
       be included. Privacy requirements relatively obvious but 
       telemetry   should   be   considered   (and   totally   opt-in 
       hopefully), for security, use of API keys at population scale 
       likely ineffective, otherwise usual mobile web app + servers 
       stuff (e.g. DDoS resilient).
       As   usual   some   students   will   mix   up   requirements   & 
       implementation/mechanisms (i.e. parts (a) & (b)) but I’ll be 
       lenient on that.
       (b) Describe, in detail, the security and privacy mechanisms you would propose for the 
       system to meet requirements related to the handling appointments from part (a). 
                                           [15 marks]
                         Page 7 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                                                                        Paper Code
                Marks from 10 for workable and privacy-friendly answers, or, for 
                good justification of less privacy-friendly answers, with 5 more 
                for inclusion of less obvious things. Less obvious things might 
                include:
                       privacy preserving metrics (ppm etc.) for telemetry
                       better than typical location services, e.g. “nearby health 
                        facilities”   provided   via   bulk   download   without   exposing 
                        current location to services at all
                       use of “wallet” services on mobile platforms for better 
                        protection of on-device data
                       provision of some way for non-IOS/Android users to use 
                        services
                If a student misses the “handling appointments” bit in the 
                question and answers more generally, I’ll be lenient.
                (c) If you were a motivated and well-resourced bad actor, outline how would you go 
                about planning an attack on this system with the goal of exfiltrating user data if 
                possible, or at least denying service to users?
                                                                                                        [5 marks]
                Good/obvious attack strategies are fine, e.g. bribe operator to 
                expose API keys/back-end data, DDoS service endpoints, lookalike 
                app in other app stores, etc. Less obvious/sneakier stuff is even 
                better, e.g. 
                       Explore whether service APIs used by app have weaknesses 
                        after reverse engineering the app
                       Supply-chain attack on SDKs/libraries used in developing the 
                        HSE app
                       As a “national” app, it’s very likely some local small s/w 
                        companies will have been contracted for part of the work, so 
                        targetted attacks against those organisations would likely 
                        find a weak point
                                                           Page 8 of 10
                                   © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                                                                                        Paper Code
                Question 4 
                (a) Describe in detail how DNS query resolution for typical address records works, 
                including, at each stage, potential attacks and mitigations. How do DNSSEC related 
                resource records affect resolver performance if/when DNSSEC is used?
                                                                                                       [15 marks]
                Marks-from-7 for a reasonable description of the stub, recursive, 
                authoritative resolver actions with/without a cold-cache. 5 marks 
                for documenting attacks/mitigations for each stage with e.g. a 
                good description of DNS poisoning getting 3. 3 marks for knowing 
                how DNSKEY etc. RRs might affect performance, maybe a bonus if 
                they note denial-of-existence problems. 
                (b) Describe ways in which the Web-PKI and the DNS are intertwined, and three attacks 
                on the DNS that affect the Web-PKI.
                                                                                                       [15 marks]
                Marks-from-6 for a reasonable description of overall Web-PKI/DNS 
                interdependencies, more if they include e.g. use of multiple 
                vantage points in ACME challenge checking and hosting problems 
                with ACME TLS-SNI challenges. More marks the more this differs 
                from answer to Q2(b). Specific DNS attacks (up to 3 marks each):
                       DoS (or censorship) of authoritatives to prevent access, or 
                        more subtly, cert renewal
                       Registrar attacks for domain take-over, followed by cert 
                        issuance, possibly coupled with active TLS MITM
                       Localised DNS spoofing (e.g. within a country) in order to 
                        route traffic via an attacker controlled n/w for traffic 
                        analysis/censorship
                       DNS attacks that aim to force use of ACME services that are 
                        attacker controlled
                       (V. subtle, lots of marks if noted, even if not directly 
                        affecting Web-PKI): delay HTTPS RR answers versus A/AAAA 
                        answers and make HTTPS TTL small, sufficient that browser 
                        connections fail to make use of ECH as the ECHConfig only 
                        arrives after the TLS connection has started
                (c) How do privacy issues arise in connection with the use of the DNS? How are those 
                affected by the use of DNS-over-TLS (DoT) or DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH)? What default DNS 
                privacy setup would you recommend for a current mobile operating system? Say why 
                you consider that a reasonable default, and how it would affect those privacy issues.
                                                           Page 9 of 10
                                   © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
                                                  Paper Code
                                           [10 marks]
       4 marks for describing privacy issues well (act of accessing 
       name from IP at time, sets of qnames being identifying etc.). 
       3 marks for correctly stating the effects of DoT/DoH (with 
       maybe a bonus if done really well, e.g. noting that there are 
       displacement issues at play) and 3 marks for a well justified 
       non-crazy default, which may well be Do53 ‘cause DoT as an OS 
       default does imply some failure cases we might not yet be 
       willing to bear.
                         Page 10 of 10
               © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2022
