                  Paper Code
                                              
               Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                   School of Computer Science & Statistics
         MSc in Computer Science                Hilary Term 
         2017
         Year 1                                 
               Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                         CS7053/CS7453/CS7074
         20 April 2017         LOCATION         09.30 – 11.30
                           Dr. Stephen Farrell
         Instructions to Candidates:
         Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks.
         You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so by
         the invigilator.
         Materials Permitted for this examination:
         N/A
                                           Paper Code
       Question 1.
       A small Irish company are just setting up as a distributor for a range
       of imported electronics goods that will be sold online. To do this they
       need to set up a web site as cost effectively as possible, for example
       through the use of open-source technologies and out-sourcing. The
       company have no specialist security or networking expertise. The
       company do however realise that a significant breach of their web
       platform could put them out of business, so before making any
       significant technology decisions, they hire you to advise them on
       what   security   and   privacy   risks   to   consider   and   what
       countermeasures to deploy to mitigate those risks. 
       (a) Describe the risk analysis process you would follow in order to
       assist the company. [10 marks]
       (b) Describe the most relevant risks (at least 3) you see for the new
       system,   considering   their   potential   impact   and   likelihood   of
       occurrence, and outline the countermeasures you would recommend
       that the company and/or their chosen service providers (who provide
       out-sourced functions) ought to implement to mitigate those risks. [25
       marks]
       (c) Assume the company had instead gone ahead and designed the
       system without having done any risk analysis. Describe some
       mistakes (not covered in part b) they would be likely to have made?
       [5 marks]
       Question 2. 
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, S/MIME,
       IPsec, Kerberos) describe the key management and application data
       protection aspects of the protocol in detail. How would you test the
       security of a deployed application that uses that protocol? [20 marks]
       (b) What are the main barriers to upgrading your chosen protocol? For
       example, if your chosen protocol is TLS, you might describe barriers
       to deployment of TLS1.3. [10 marks]
       (c) Describe two or three known attacks on implementations of your
       chosen protocol with an emphasis on explaining their significance for
       the Internet. [10 marks]
                        Page 2 of 3
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2017
                                           Paper Code
       Question 3. 
       Human rights defenders and other Non-Governmental Organisations
       (NGOs) in various parts of the world face many challenges, often from
       authorities in their own countries, whether those authorities are the
       de-facto government or a terrorist organisation or a set of “freedom-
       fighters.” Technology can help NGO employees, especially in terms of
       information access and sharing at home and abroad, but can also
       provide their adversaries with opportunities to track and spy on
       individuals and on the organisation as a whole. Some NGOs are well-
       resourced but many are not and need to minimise costs and
       complexity. You are tasked with designing a system to be replicated in
       different NGOs worldwide to allow employees to communicate with
       their colleagues, and with chosen non-employees, in as secure and
       privacy-friendly   a   manner   as   possible.   Bear   in   mind   that   NGO
       employees will tend to be local activists and cannot be expected to
       have much computer or networking training, though they can be
       trained to use the system you design. 
       (a) Outline the overall design for such a system (include a network
       diagram) and describe the security and privacy requirements the
       system must meet. [10 marks]
       (b) Describe, in detail, the security solution you would propose to
       meet those requirements. [20 marks]
       (c) Describe a non-obvious way in which an adversary might attempt
       to breach the system to their benefit. [10 marks]
       Question 4. 
       (a) Describe the architecture and key management hierarchy of
       DNSSEC. [20 marks]
       (b) Why is DNSSEC hard to deploy? Suggest some changes to the
       protocol or overall DNS ecosystem that would make DNSSEC easier to
       deploy. [10 marks]
       (c) Give some examples of how the DNS leaks private information?
       How can we mitigate that via changes to policies, protocols,
       implementations and deployments? [10 marks]
                        Page 3 of 3
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2017
