              Paper Code
                                   
             Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                School of Computer Science & Statistics
       MSc in Computer Science       Hilary Term 2016
       Year 1                         
             Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                       CS7053/CS7453
       21 April 2016    Goldsmith Hall  09.30 – 11.30
                      Dr. Stephen Farrell
       Instructions to Candidates:
       Attempt three questions.  All questions carry 33 marks.
       You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so by the 
       invigilator.
       Materials Permitted for this examination:
       N/A
                                           Paper Code
       Question 1.
       A well-established main street department-store are setting up a new web
       site to sell their usual array of physical goods (clothes, household goods,
       electronics) and a limited set of digital goods. There are some thousands of
       products in their overall catalogue sourced from a number (about 100) of
       Irish and  foreign manufacturers, which change from time to time. The set
       of products changes frequently, while the set of suppliers changes more
       slowly. As they are very concerned with both their real-world and online
       reputation, the company want to follow best security and privacy practices
       for their web site development and operations, online and telephone
       support, online marketing, billing and payments functions. They would also
       like to out-source as many of these functions as possible, for example,
       using a company such as Paypal or similar for payment processing. The
       company don't however have internal security or privacy expertise and ask
       you to consult with them to ensure that they end up with a sufÏciently
       secure web site.
       (a) Describe the most relevant risks (at least 3) you see for the new system,
       considering their impact and likelihood of occurrence, and outline the
       countermeasures you would expect that the company and/or their chosen
       service providers (who provide out-sourced functions) ought implement to
       mitigate those risks. [18 marks]
       (b)  What questions should the company ask the out-sourced service
       providers about their systems and operational practices? [10 marks]
       (c) What functions would you recommend that the company should not out-
       source and why? [5 marks]
       Question 2. 
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, S/MIME, IPsec,
       Kerberos) describe the key management and application data protection
       aspects   of   the   protocol   in   detail.   How   would   you   test   a   library
       implementation of the protocol before using it in some application.  
       [15 marks]
       (b) What are the main barriers to deployment that are likely to be
       experienced with applications using your chosen protocol? [8 marks]
       (c) Describe two or three known attacks on implementations of your chosen
       protocol and briefly outline their significance on the Internet. [10 marks]
                         Page 2 of 3
           © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2016
                                           Paper Code
       Question 3. 
       You work for a large multinational corporation in the software business that
       has operations in about 40 countries. You are asked to design a system for
       internal whistle-blowers (or “reporters”) to report misbehaviour. The system
       should allow   employees and contractors to enter new reports without
       being identified. Only a special team (the “ombudsman” team) should be
       able to read and process reports and associated information. Processing
       reports will require annotating content and possibly adding additional
       information as incidents are investigated by the ombudsman team. There
       should be some way in which the ombudsman can attempt to contact
       reporters, if (and only if) the reporter has opted-in to being contactable.
       While the typical report is expected to be about personnel matters (e.g.
       manager X is treating person Y badly, or person W is harassing person Z), it
       is also possible (though far less likely) that much more sensitive reports
       could be entered (e.g. our company has spent millions of Euros on bribes in
       the last decade). Note that the company has many personnel (e.g. DevOps
       staff) who are capable of, but unlikely to, attack a system that has any
       obvious or documented weakness. Your goal in designing the system is to
       balance usability and the cost of developing and operating the system
       against the level of confidence that reporters can have that they will not be
       identified if they use the system and their confidence that reports will result
       in real and fair investigations and subsequent action.
       (a) Outline the overall design for such a system (include a network
       diagram) and describe the security requirements the system must meet.
       [10 marks]
       (b) Describe, in detail, the security solution you would propose to meet
       those requirements. [15 marks]
       (c) Describe a non-obvious way in which an employee or contractor might
       abuse the system to their benefit. [8 marks]
       Question 4. 
       (a) Describe the architecture and key management hierarchy of DNSSEC.
       [15 marks]
       (b) Why is DNSSEC less likely to be deployed, compared to DKIM? [8 marks]
       (c) How does the DNS leak private information? How can one mitigate that
       via changes to protocols, implementations and deployments? [10 marks]
                         Page 3 of 3
           © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2016
