                  Paper Code
                                              
               Faculty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
                   School of Computer Science & Statistics
         MSc in Computer Science                Hilary Term 
         2018
         Year 1                                 
               Security of Networks and Distributed Systems
                           CS7053/CS4474/...
         XX April 2018         LOCATION         09.30 – 11.30
                          Dr. Stephen Farrell
         Instructions to Candidates:
         Attempt three questions.  All questions carry equal marks.
         You may not start this examination until you are instructed to do so 
         by the invigilator.
         Materials Permitted for this examination:
         N/A
                                           Paper Code
       Question 1.
       An Irish medium-sized manufacturing company has about 1000 
       employees, a small number of overseas ofces and some dozens of 
       frequently travelling employees. The company want to replace their 
       existing in-house email infrastructure and are considering how to do 
       that, including deciding what to continue to host themselves and what 
       to outsource. They ask you, as a security consultant, to do a risk 
       analysis for them, considering the security and privacy implications of 
       a new email system and of migration from the old to a new system. 
       The new system may involve updates for all email components: 
       standard desktop, mobile and web user agents, mail submission 
       servers, inbound and outbound mail transfer agents, message stores 
       and security   components   such   as   anti-spam   and   anti-malware 
       systems. Existing accounts and message store content will need to be 
       migrated to the new system as that is incrementally deployed. A very 
       small number of employees use PGP (mainly sysadmins) but most 
       users do not use of PGP or S/MIME. Some users currently use third-
       party email systems, (such as gmail/hotmail), for work email, as there 
       is no policy in place about the use of such third-party systems.
       (a) Describe the risk analysis process you would follow in order to 
       assist the company. (Note – this part of the answer is about process, 
       not the details of technical mechanisms for email security.)
                                        [10 marks]
       (b) Describe the most relevant risks (at least 3) you see for the new 
       system, including their potential impact and likelihood of occurrence, 
       and outline the countermeasures you would recommend that the 
       company and/or their chosen service providers (who provide out-
       sourced functions) ought to implement to mitigate those risks. Risks 
       that could emerge during migration from the old to the new system 
       are in scope here.
                                        [25 marks]
       (c) Assume the company had instead gone ahead and deployed a new 
       system without having done any risk analysis. Describe some 
       mistakes, not covered in part (b), that they might have made?
                                         [5 marks]
                        Page 2 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                           Paper Code
       Question 2. 
       (a) For any real Internet key exchange protocol (e.g. TLS, S/MIME, 
       IPsec, Kerberos) describe the key management and application data 
       protection aspects of the protocol in detail. Include a description of 
       how networking failures, (e.g. packet drops, re-ordering), might afect 
       use of your chosen protocol.
       Your answer may describe any widely used version of your chosen 
       protocol, but you need to state which version you are describing. 
       Choosing TLSv1.3 is allowed – you don’t need to specify the exact 
       Internet-draft version you’ve chosen in that case. 
                                        [20 marks]
       (b) Outline the ways in which the security of your chosen protocol 
       depends on other infrastructure such as the Internet routing system, 
       the domain name system or a key management infrastructure. 
                                        [10 marks]
       (c) State-level adversaries have diferent capabilities and interests 
       when compared to potential industrial or commercial adversaries. 
       Describe three ways in which the threat-model for an implementation 
       or deployment of your chosen protocol would difer, when considering 
       state-level versus industrial or commercial adversaries.
                                        [10 marks]
                        Page 3 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                           Paper Code
       Question 3. 
       TCD decide to plan for the increasingly common situation where the 
       campus must temporarily close due to a “red” weather alert. The 
       overall plan is to be able to switch into a “remote-access” mode of 
       operation where administrators, academic staf and students can still 
       do some work, even if they cannot operate entirely normally. In 
       “remote-access” mode, (some) lectures will continue via the Internet, 
       and coursework assignments can be set, completed and marked. 
       Clearly, real-time exceptions will need to be handled, e.g., due to 
       network problems. More fundamentally, new timetables/schedules 
       and modes for student/staf interaction will be needed to handle 
       lecture timetabling and assignments without over-burdening staf and 
       students who will at the same time be dealing with the physical 
       disruption caused by the inclement weather. 
       The university are at the early planning stages for this system, and 
       ask you to provide a design for a prototype system to be trialled in 
       the School of Computer Science and Statistics. The prototype system 
       will be tested via a planned exercise that will only be announced a 
       few days ahead of time. That is, students, academic and support staf, 
       will only have 2-3 days notice that they are to switch into “remote-
       access” mode for one week, that they must not attend campus during 
       that week (relevant buildings will be locked), and that they need to 
       use the new system to do as much “normal” work as possible. Before 
       the exercise, students will not have used the system before, but they 
       will have undergone some training and HOWTOs and other guides will 
       be available online. You can assume staf have had more training but 
       are still quite unfamiliar with the system.
       (a) Outline your overall design for such a system (include a network 
       diagram and describe how scheduling is handled), and state the 
       security and privacy requirements the system must meet. 
                                        [15 marks]
       (b) Describe, in detail, the security solution you would propose to 
       meet those requirements. 
                                        [20 marks]
       (c) How would you handle evaluating the security and privacy aspects 
       of the system, before, during and after the planned exercise?
                                         [5 marks]
                        Page 4 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
                                           Paper Code
       Question 4. 
       (a)   Describe   three   signifcant   security   and   privacy   diferences 
       between real-world end-to-end and hop-by-hop security mechanisms 
       as   used   for   interpersonal   messaging,   in   email   and/or   instant 
       messaging systems.
                                        [15 marks]
       (b) Describe three signifcant barriers to the deployment of Internet-
       scale end-to-end email security mechanisms such as S/MIME or PGP. 
       In each case, describe realistic actions you would recommend that 
       aim to at least partially overcome those barriers.
                                        [15 marks]
       (c) If end-to-end email confdentiality became the norm, so that most 
       email messages were encrypted between sender and recipient(s), 
       what problems would that cause for email system administrators, and 
       how would you recommend they address those issues?
                                        [10 marks]
                        Page 5 of 5
          © Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin 2018
